
Behind the Throne
By William Le Queux
Published by Methuen and Co Ltd, 36 Essex Street, London WC.
This edition dated 1914.

Behind the Throne, by William Le Queux.

________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________
BEHIND THE THRONE, BY WILLIAM LE QUEUX.

CHAPTER ONE.

THE CAT'S-PAW.

"Of course the transaction is a purely private one.  There is, I
suppose, no chance of the truth leaking out?  If so, it might be very
awkward, you know."

"None whatever.  Your Excellency may rely upon me to deal with these
people cautiously.  Besides, they have their own reputation to
consider--as well as ours."

"And how much do you say they offer?" asked His Excellency in Italian,
so that the English servants, if they were listening, should not
understand.

"If you accept their conditions as they stand, they pay one hundred
thousand francs--four thousand pounds sterling--into your account at the
Pall Mall branch of the Credit Lyonnais on Monday next," replied the
other in the same language.

"And your share, my dear Angelo?"

"That is apart.  I have arranged it."

"And they'll profit a million, and dress our unfortunate infantry in
shoddy?"

"Possibly, but what does it really matter?  A soldier's clothes are of
little concern, as long as he is well armed."

"But the boots?--the contract is for boots as well."

"Your Excellency forgets that the English soldiers have more than once
been sent into the field in boots made of brown paper.  And they were of
English make!  Ours are German--and we must expect the foreigner to take
advantage of us."

"Yes, but we know well the reputation of these people."

"Of course.  But from the English firm we get nothing--the English are
too honest;" and the thin, sallow-faced Sicilian laughed scornfully
towards his superior, Signor Camillo Morini, senator of the kingdom of
Italy and Minister of War.

His Excellency, a tall, well-built, well-dressed man of sixty or so, in
a suit of light grey tweed, whose hair was only just turning white,
whose carefully trained moustache showed but few silver threads, and
whose dark, deep-set eyes were sharp and observant, stood at the window
gazing thoughtfully out upon the green level English lawn where his
daughter Mary and some visitors were playing tennis.

He remained silent, his back to Angelo Borselli, the man in black who
had travelled from Rome to Leicestershire to urge him to accept the
bribe of four thousand pounds from the German firm of army contractors.
Camillo Morini was a man with a strange, adventurous history--a man who,
had he not lived entirely in the political world, would have been termed
a knight of industry, a self-made man who, by his own ingenious craft
and cunning, had risen to become one of Italy's chief Ministers, and a
senator of the kingdom.  He entertained some scruples as regards
honesty, both political and financial, yet General Angelo Borselli, the
bureaucrat, who was Under-Secretary, for the past ten years had been
busily engaged in squeezing all the profit possible out of the office he
held.

Morini and Borselli had for years assisted each other, or, to be more
truthful, Morini, who seemed to exercise a kind of animal magnetism over
men, had used Borselli for his own ends, and the Under-Secretary had
been the Minister's cat's-paw ever since the days of Victor Emmanuel
when they were deputies together at Montecitorio.  Upon the stormy sea
of Italian politics they had sailed together, and although many times
they had run before the wind towards the shoals of exposure, they had
somehow always managed to escape disaster.

Borselli had, by His Excellency's clever manoeuvring, been given the
rank of general although a comparatively young man, and had been
appointed Under-Secretary of War, while the pair had, in secret, reaped
a golden harvest, even against Morini's will.  When deputy, and little
better than a political adventurer, he had been compelled to make his
politics pay; but as Minister, with the responsibility of office upon
him, he had at first worked for the benefit of Italy.  Yet, alas! so
contaminating had been the corruption about him that he found it
well-nigh impossible to act disinterestedly, and very soon all his
highest resolves had been cast aside, and with Borselli ever scheming
and ever prompting at his elbow, he was constrained, like his
fellow-members of the Cabinet, to seek profit where he could.

In Italy, under the regime of the late King Humbert, Ministers soon
became millionaires--in francs--and Camillo Morini was no exception.

A born leader of men, gifted with a marvellous tact, a keen, clear
foresight, a wide knowledge of men, and a deep, wily cunning, he held
the confidence of his sovereign, the late lamented king, and took care
that nothing occurred to shake or to imperil it.  He was a _poseur_, and
owed his position to his ingenious methods and his plausible tongue.
His highly respectable exterior was inspiring, and the veneer of elegant
refinement of manner had opened to him the best social circles in Rome
and Paris.  He was a good linguist, and had been an advocate in Florence
in the days when he made the law a stepping-stone into politics and fat
emoluments.

General Angelo Borselli, the soldierly, middle-aged man of the sallow
face in funereal black, always acted the part of the cringing underling,
yet at heart he really hated and despised the man whom he was bound to
call "His Excellency."  It was, however, Borselli's active brain which
evolved those neat schemes by which a portion of the public funds of
poor strangled Italy went into their joint pockets, he who inspired the
Press and kept at bay the horde of political opponents.  It was General
Borselli who made suggestions, who juggled so cleverly with figures, and
who ruled the Ministry of War with a rod of iron.

The two men detested each other, yet, held together by the bond of
mutual peculation, they played constantly into each other's hands, and
both had become wealthy in consequence.

Noticing that the Minister remained silent, still looking forth upon the
lawn, the other, with a strange glance of evil envy, remarked--

"You are surely not becoming scrupulous!  The commission is only a fair
one.  If those pigs of Germans want the contract they must pay for it."

Camillo Morini snapped his bony fingers, but still remained silent.  At
heart he longed to free himself of all this dishonesty at the expense of
the comfort and safety of the army.  Indeed he knew that by such
transactions his country was being imperilled.  Recent disasters in
Abyssinia had been due directly to the defective arms and ammunition
supplied to the troops.  The contractors had all paid him heavy bribes,
and the brave sons of Italy had gone forth armed with rubbish, and were
defeated in consequence.

Yes.  He longed to become honest, and yet with all his heavy expenses,
his splendid palace in Rome, his magnificent old villa on the hillside
outside Florence, his great tracts of wine-lands and olive-gardens in
the Apennines, and that house he rented as a summer residence in
England, how could he refuse these alluring presents?  They were
necessary for his position--for his existence.  His eyes were fixed upon
his daughter Mary, a neat, trim figure in a cream flannel dress; his
daughter who believed so implicitly in him, and who regarded him as her
ideal of probity and uprightness.  He sighed.

"Perhaps you consider a hundred thousand francs not quite enough?"
remarked the man behind him.  "I told the agent in London yesterday,
when he came to Claridge's, that I expected you would want another
twenty thousand, but he said his firm could not possibly afford it.  He
is remaining in London until to-morrow for your decision.  He intended
to come down here and see you, but I forbade it."

"Quite right!  Quite right!  Keep all such persons as far from me as
possible, Angelo," was the Minister's quick reply.  "I've had more than
enough of them."

The other smiled, still standing erect on the hearthrug, his back to the
fireplace, his hands in his trousers pockets, smoking a cigarette.

"Of course," he said, "I tried to get all I could out of him, but a
hundred thousand was his absolute limit.  Indeed I wanted to make it
German marks, not francs, but it was useless.  I have brought with me
the acceptance of the contract," he added.  "The decree only requires
your endorsement," and he drew from his pocket a paper which he opened
and spread upon the big old-fashioned writing-table of the library.

The Minister, however, still hesitated, while his companion smiled
within himself at what he regarded as a sudden and utterly unnecessary
pang of conscience.

"This cheap contracting is simply sacrificing the lives of our poor
men," declared Morini suddenly, turning at last from the window and
facing the man who was so constantly his tempter.

"Bah!  There are cheap contracts and secret commissions in all the
departments--marine, public-works--even at the Ministry of Justice."

"I know, I know," groaned the Minister.  "The whole system is rotten at
the core.  I've tried to be honest, and have failed."

"Your Excellency must admit that our department does not stand alone.
It is to be regretted that our poor conscripts are half starved, and our
soldiers armed with faulty ammunition, but surely we must live as well
as those in the other ministries!"

"At the sacrifice of Italy?" remarked the Minister in a hard tone.  "I
really do not believe, Angelo, that you possess any conscience," he
added bitterly.

"I possess, I think, about the same quantity as your Excellency," was
the other's satirical reply, as he twisted his dark moustache.
"Conscience and memory are the two most dangerous operations of the
politician's intellect.  Happy the man who indulges in neither."

"Then you must be very happy indeed," remarked His Excellency, with a
dry laugh.  "But," he added, sighing, "I suppose I must fall in with
your suggestion for this, the very last time.  You say that the money
will be placed to my account at the Credit Lyonnais next Monday--eh?"

The Under-Secretary nodded in the affirmative, and then the Minister
took up a pen and with a quick flourish scribbled his signature at the
head of the document which gave slop-made uniforms and brown-paper boots
to fifteen regiments of Italian infantry.

CHAPTER TWO.

FRIENDS OF HER EXCELLENCY.

Her Excellency Signora Morini was an Englishwoman, and for that reason
the Minister rented Orton Court, that picturesque old Queen Anne house
in Leicestershire, where, with their daughter Mary, they each year spent
August and September, the two blazing months of the Italian summer.

Standing back amid wide level lawns, high box-hedges, quaint old
flower-gardens, and spreading cedars, about four miles out of Rugby on
the Leicester road, it dominated a wide stretch of rich, undulating
pastures of bright fresh green, so pleasing to the eye after the
sun-baked, thirsty land of Italy.  The house, a quaint, rambling old
place full of odd nooks and corners, was of time-mellowed red brick,
partly ivy-covered, with a wide stone portico, spacious hall, and fine
oak staircase.  One wing, that which faced the tennis-lawn, was covered
with roses, while around the lawn itself were iron arches over which
trailing roses also grew in abundant profusion.

The Morinis kept but little company when in England.  They came there
for rest after the mad whirl of the Roman season, and so careful was His
Excellency to keep his true position a secret, and thus avoid being
compelled to make complimentary calls upon the English Ministers and
officials in London, that very few persons, if indeed anyone in the
neighbourhood, were really aware that the tall, courteous foreigner who
came there for a few weeks each year--Mr Morini, as they called him--
was actually one of the most powerful Ministers in Europe.

They were civil to their neighbours in a mild, informal way, of course.
Foreigners are always regarded with suspicion in England.  Madame Morini
made calls which were returned, and they usually played tennis and
croquet in the afternoon; for Mary, on account of her bright,
cosmopolitan vivacity, was a particular favourite with everyone.

The local clergy, headed by the rural dean and his wife, were fond of
drinking tea on the pretty lawn of Orton Court, and on this afternoon
among the guests were several rectors and their curates, together with
their women-folk.  The wife of the Minister of War had been the daughter
of a poor Yorkshire clergyman.  She had, while acting as English
governess in the family of a Roman prince, met her husband, then only a
struggling advocate in the Florence courts, and, notwithstanding that
she was a Protestant, they had married, and she had never for one moment
repented her choice.  Husband and wife, after those years of strange ups
and downs, were still entirely devoted to each other; while Mary, their
only child, they mutually idolised.

The scene upon that sunny lawn was picturesque and purely English.

Madame Morini, a dark-haired, well-preserved woman in pale mauve, was
seated at a bamboo table in the shade serving tea and gossiping with her
friends--for the game had been suspended, and cake and biscuits were
being handed round by the men in flannels.

An elderly woman, wife of a retired colonel, inquired for "Mr Morini,"
whereupon madame answered--

"He is in the house, detained on business, I think.  A gentleman has
come down from London to see him."  And thus was her husband's presence
excused.

Ten minutes later, however, when Mary, watching her opportunity, saw her
mother alone, she ran up to her, whispering in her ear--

"That man Borselli has come from Rome, mother!  I saw his face at the
study window.  Why can't he leave father alone when we are here on
holiday?"

"I suppose it is some affair of state, my dear," was her mother's calm
reply.  "Your father told me he was to arrive this afternoon.  He is to
remain the night."

"I hate the man!" declared the pretty, dark-haired girl with emphasis.
"I watched him through the window just now, and saw him look so black at
father behind his back.  I believe they have quarrelled."

"I think not, my dear.  Your father and General Borselli are very old
friends, remember."

"Of course.  But he's a Sicilian, and you know what you've always told
me about the Livornese and the Sicilians."

"Don't be silly, Mary," exclaimed the Minister's wife, laughing.
"Matters of state do not concern us women.  Go and continue your game."

The girl shrugged her shoulders with the queer little foreign gesture
due to her cosmopolitan upbringing, and turned away to rejoin the young
man in grey flannels who stood awaiting her on the other side of the
court.

She was twenty-one, with perfect, regular features, a pointed chin, dark
chestnut hair, and a pair of large, lustrous eyes in which gleamed all
the fire and passion of the sunny South.  Her figure, neat-waisted and
well-proportioned, was always admired in the salons of Rome and
Florence, and she had for the past couple of years been the reigning
beauty in the official and diplomatic world of the Eternal City.

Possessed of an easy grace, a natural modesty, with a sweet, pleasant
expression, she had, soon after returning from school at Broadstairs,
been chaperoned into Roman society by her mother, and had now, at
twenty-one, become essentially a woman of the world, well-dressed,
_chic_, and full of vivacity.  A remarkable linguist--for she spoke
English, Italian, French, and Spanish with equal fluency--she had
quickly made her mark in that very difficult circle, Italian society, a
fact which pleased her parents, and induced her father to increase her
allowance until she was enabled to have her ball dresses from Paris and
her tailor-made gowns from London.

Morini, compelled, for the sake of his prominent position, to make a
show of affluence, saw that by dressing his daughter better than other
girls he was exhibiting a prosperity that would be noticed and talked
about.

As she crossed the lawn that warm August afternoon, plainly attired in
her cream flannel skirt and pale blue blouse, there could be no two
opinions regarding her marvellous beauty.  It was of an unusual kind, a
combination of the handsome classic model of the ancients with the sweet
womanliness of modern life.  Her carriage, too, was superb.  The casual
observer, watching her retreating form, would not require to look twice
to recognise that she was of foreign birth; for no Englishwoman carries
herself with that easy, elastic swing which is inherent in the Italian
girl of the upper class.  Yet, perhaps owing to her mother's English
birth and teaching, she admired to the full everything that was British.
She was a keen, outspoken critic of all things Italian, and was never
so happy as when they were living unostentatiously in semi-privacy for
those two welcome months each year in rural Leicestershire.

At heart, she hated that brilliant circle in which they were compelled
to move when at home--the continual functions, the official balls, the
court receptions, the gay, irresponsible world of intrigue and scandal,
of dazzling uniforms and glittering decorations, in which she was so
continually courted and flattered.  Already she had become nauseated by
its vices and its shams, and longed always for the rural peace of the
country, early hours, and the ease of old frocks.  Yet it was
impossible, she knew.  She was compelled to live in that fevered
atmosphere of wealth and officialdom that revolved around the throne of
His Majesty King Humbert, to receive the admiration and homage paid to
her because of her striking beauty, and to act her part, as her father
instructed her--a prominent part in one of the most brilliant courts of
Europe.

Was it any wonder that, scarce out of her teens, she was already a
_femme du monde_, with a wide knowledge of the hypocrisies of society,
the tortuous ways of political intrigue, and the foetid moral atmosphere
of those gilded salons and perfumed boudoirs?

"I wonder if you'll forgive me if I don't play any more, Mr Macbean?"
she asked of the dark-haired young man in grey who stood, racquet in
hand, awaiting her return.  "I am very tired.  I played in the
tournament at your uncle's yesterday, you know, and we from the South
are exotic plants, after all."

"Forgive you!  Of course!" cried the young man gallantly.  "The sun is
still too warm to be comfortable.  Perhaps you will show me the gardens
instead?"

"Willingly," she answered.  "But there's not much to see here, I fear,"
and they strolled together between the high box-hedges, into the
well-kept flower-garden with its grey old sundial and beds edged with
curbs of lichen-covered stone.  Beyond lay another lawn, which rose
gently until it gave entrance into a small shady wood of high old oaks
and elms wherein the rooks were cawing.

The pair were comparatively strangers.  A fortnight before, he had
called with his uncle, the rector of Thornby, whom he was visiting, and
on several occasions since they had met at tennis or at tea in the
drawing-rooms of various houses in the neighbourhood.

They chatted while strolling around the great sloping lawn, and he was
expressing admiration at the excellent game she had played.  She
inwardly reflected that he seemed a very pleasant companion--so
different from those over-dressed young Roman nobles, all elegance,
swagger, and pose.

To George Macbean Nature had been kind and Chance had been cruel.

He was tall, slender, and athletic, with pale, refined features and a
look of thoughtful and reticent calm.  People looked at him far oftener
than they did at handsomer men.  It was one of those faces which suggest
the romance of fate, and his eyes, under their straight brows and their
drooping lids, could gaze at women with an honest, open look.  And yet
women seldom saw him for the first time without thinking of him when he
had passed from sight.  He aroused at a first glance a vague speculative
interest--he was a man whom women loved, and yet he was utterly
unconscious of it all.

He was son of a younger son of the Macbeans of Castle Douglas; the blood
of the ancient Galloway lairds ran in his veins; yet it was all that
remained to him of the vanished greatness of a race that had fought so
valiantly on the Border.  He had, on his father's death, been compelled
to come down from Cambridge only to find himself launched upon the world
practically penniless, when, by good fortune, an influential friend of
his father's in the City had contrived to obtain for him a situation as
private secretary to Mr Morgan-Mason, a wholesale provision merchant,
who, having made a fortune in business, sought to enter society by the
parliamentary back door.  He sat for South-West Norfolk, and was mainly
distinguished in the House by his loudness of dress and his vulgar
ostentation.

The post of secretary to such an impossible person was by no means a
congenial occupation for a gentleman.  The white-waistcoated vulgarian
smiled at the poverty of the peerage, and treated his secretary as he
would one of his shopmen in the Goswell Road; yet George Macbean could
only "grin and bear it," for upon this aspiring merchant of cheese and
bacon his very living depended.  He could not afford to lose the one
hundred and eighty pounds a year which the bacon merchant paid him.

It being the recess, and Mr Morgan-Mason having followed in the wake of
a needy earl and his wife to Vichy, Macbean was spending a month with
the Reverend Basil Sinclair, his bachelor uncle, when he had become
acquainted with that bright, vivacious girl who was walking beside him.

She was speaking of Italy, and life there in winter, without, of course,
mentioning the official position of her father, when he said--

"Ah!  I too love Italy.  I have been to Rome and Florence several times.
Both cities are delightful--even to the mere visitor like myself."

"Perhaps you speak Italian?" she hazarded in that language.

"I am fairly well acquainted with it," he responded in the purest
Tuscan, laughing the while.  "Before I went to Cambridge I lived five
years with my mother's brother, who was a priest in Pisa."

"Why, you speak like a born Italian!" she laughed.  "It is so difficult
for us English to roll our r's--to give the exact accent, for instance,
to _cane_ and to _carne_.  Over those two words we make ourselves
ridiculous."  They had entered the wood, where the damp smell of
decaying leaves, so essentially English, met their nostrils, and were
strolling up one of the mossy paths in the cool shadow.  Yes, she was
certainly lovely, he reflected.  Report had not lied about her.  She was
more beautiful than any woman he had ever before beheld, more graceful,
more cosmopolitan.

Morini?  Morini?  Yes, he had heard the name before.  It was not at all
uncommon in Tuscany.  She was Anglo-Italian, and the girl born of
Anglo-Italian parents is perhaps the most charming and cosmopolitan of
any in Europe.

Chatting gaily, they lingered in the wood, strolled through the long
range of hothouses, and then back again to the lawn, where they found
the guests bidding farewell to their hostess and departing.

The Reverend Basil Sinclair was bending over Madame Morini's hand, an
example which his nephew, though loth to leave the side of the girl who
had so entirely charmed him, was bound to follow, and five minutes later
the two men mounted into the rector's pony-cart, raised their hats, and
drove away.

Later that evening, as General Borselli, ready dressed for dinner,
stood, a well-set-up figure in the long, low, old-fashioned
drawing-room, with its perfume of pot-pourri, awaiting the appearance of
the ladies, the door suddenly opened, and there entered a dark,
good-looking, brown-bearded man of about thirty, who was a guest at
Orton, but having been up to London for the day, had only just returned
in time to slip into his dinner-jacket.

The two men faced each other.

The new-comer, also a foreigner, started back, halting on the threshold
as he recognised the sallow, sinister countenance of the other in the
dim half-light.  Angelo Borselli was the very last man he expected to
meet beneath the Minister's roof in England, and the encounter was, to
him, somewhat disconcerting.

"You!" cried the general in surprise, speaking in French.  "So you
actually have the audacity to pose as a friend of His Excellency, after
those very plain words I spoke in the Florence Club!  You accept my
friend's invitation and dare pay court to mademoiselle!  Is this not a
dangerous game you are playing, my friend?"

"I conceive no danger in it--as far as I am concerned," replied the
young Frenchman, Jules Dubard, coolly.  "Besides, my private affairs are
surely no concern of yours!  If His Excellency does me the great honour
to invite me to his English home, I shall certainly accept, even at risk
of incurring your displeasure," he added, with a supercilious smile.

"You recollect what I told you?"

"Perfectly," replied the well-dressed young count, with an air of
extreme politeness, as he rearranged his cravat in the mirror.  "But you
appear to overlook one rather important fact."

"And what is that, pray?" inquired the Sicilian, with an evil flash in
his dark eyes.

"Exposure to His Excellency is synonymous with exposure of yourself in
quite another quarter, my dear general," replied the guest, in a meaning
tone.  "You cannot afford to risk that, you know.  We both of us may
threaten, but it is, after all, what these English call a fool's game.
Neither of us dare give each other away.  So we may just as well be
friends as enemies--eh?"

CHAPTER THREE.

IN WHICH MARY REVEALS CERTAIN SUSPICIONS.

Dinner, served with that same stiff stateliness that characterised
everything in the Morini household, was over, and the three men had
rejoined the ladies in the drawing-room.

Mary, in a pretty _decollete_ dinner-gown of pale pink chiffon, with a
single tea-rose in her corsage, had, at Dubard's suggestion, gone to the
piano, and in a sweet contralto had sung some of those old Florentine
folk-songs, or _stornelli_, as they are called, those weirdly mediaeval
songs that are still sung by the populace in the streets of Florence
to-day.  Then as conclusion she ran her fingers lightly over the keys
and sang--

  "Fiorin Fiorello!
  Di tutti i fiorellin che fioriranno,
  Il fior del' amor mio sara il piu bello?"

"Brava!  Brava!" cried the young Frenchman standing by the piano, and as
she raised her eyes to his, it was patent that the pair entertained a
regard for each other.

"Your songs of old Florence are so charming, so different from
everything else in music, mademoiselle," he declared.  "We have nothing
like them in France.  Our _chansons_ are, after all, inharmonious
rubbish.  It is not surprising that you in Italy have a contempt for our
literature, our music, and our drama, for it cannot compare with yours.
We have had no poet like Dante, no composer like Verdi, no musician like
Paganini--and," he added, dropping his voice to a low whisper as he bent
quickly to her ear, "no woman so fair as Mary Morini."

She blushed, and busied herself with her music books in order to conceal
her confusion.  The general was chatting with her father and mother at
the farther end of the long room, and therefore did not notice that
swift passage of admiration on the part of Jules Dubard.

The Frenchman was a friend of the family, mainly because he had been
helpful to Morini in a variety of ways, and also on account of his
pleasant, easy-going manner and quiet elegance.  He was from the South.
The old family chateau--a grey, dismal place full of ghostly memories
and mildewed pictures of his ancestors--stood high up in the Pyrenees
above Bayonne, five miles from the Spanish frontier; yet he had always
lived in Paris, and from the days when he left college on his father's
death he had led the gay, irresponsible life of the modern Parisian of
means, was a member of the Jockey Club, and a well-known figure at the
Cafe Americain and at Maxim's.

As a young man about the French capital he gave frequent bachelor
parties at his cosy flat in the Avenue Macmahon, and possessing a very
wide circle of friends, he had been able to render the Italian Minister
of War several confidential services.

Two years ago, while in Rome, he had received an invitation to dine one
evening at His Excellency's splendid old palace--once the residence of a
Roman prince--and from that time had been on terms of intimacy with the
family and one of Mary's most ardent admirers.  He spent a good deal of
his time in the Eternal City, and had during the past season become a
familiar figure in society.

His Excellency, quick of observation, had, however, detected Borselli's
antipathy towards the young man, even though it was so cleverly
concealed.  And he had wondered.  As fellow-guests beneath his roof they
had that evening chatted and laughed together across the dinner-table,
had referred to each other by their Christian names, and had fraternised
as though they were the best friends in the world.  Yet those words
uttered by Angelo Borselli while awaiting the ladies had been full of
hidden meaning.

The Morinis were in ignorance of the truth--and Mary most of all.

Dubard was not a handsome man--for it is difficult to find a man of the
weak, anaemic type of modern Parisian who can be called good-looking
from an English standpoint.  He was thin-featured, lantern-jawed, with a
pale complexion, dark eyes, and a brown moustache.  He wore his hair
parted in the centre, and as an _elegant_ was proud of his white almost
waxen hands and carefully manicured finger-nails.  His dress, too, often
betrayed those signs of effeminacy which in Paris just now are
considered the height of good form in a man.  His every movement seemed
studied, yet his stiff elegance was on the most approved model of the
Bois and the ballroom.  He played frequently at his _cercle_, he wore
the most hideous goggles and fur coat and drove his motor daily, and he
indulged in _le sport_ in an impossible get-up, not because he liked
tramping about those horrid muddy fields, but because it was the correct
thing for a gentleman to do.

But his greatest success of all had, he told himself, been the
attraction of Mary Morini.  All through the past winter in Rome he had
danced with her, flirted with her, raised his hat to her as she had
driven on the Pincio, and had joined her in her mother's box at the
Constanzi.  To the Quirinale he had, of course, not been bidden, but he
lived in the hope of next season receiving the coveted royal command.

With Camillo Morini as his friend, everything in Italy was possible.

Yet Angelo Borselli's presence disturbed him that evening.  He knew the
man who had been given the post of Under-Secretary.  They had met long
before he had known Morini--under circumstances that in themselves
formed a strange and remarkable story--a story which he feared might one
day be made public.

And then?

Bah!  Why anticipate such a terrible _contretemps_? he asked himself.
Then he bit his under lip as he glanced at his enemy standing beneath
the light of the rose-shaded lamp talking with madame, and afterwards
turned again to laugh and chat with mademoiselle.

"I lunched at the Junior United Service Club to-day with a friend of
yours," he was saying; for she had risen from the piano and they had
gone out upon the moon-lit verandah together, where, obtaining her
permission, he lit a cigarette.

"A friend of mine?"

"Captain Houghton, the British naval attache at Rome.  He is home for a
month's leave, and sent his compliments to you."

"Oh, Freddie Houghton?" she exclaimed.  "He was longing to get home all
the winter, but couldn't get leave.  He's engaged, they say, and of
course he wanted to see his enchantress.  He's the best dancer in Rome."

Then suddenly lowering his voice, he asked abruptly--

"Why is Borselli here?  I had no idea he was to be a guest!"

"Ah!  I know you don't like the fellow," she remarked, glancing back
into the room.  "Neither do I.  He is my father's evil genius, I
believe."

"What makes you suspect that?" inquired the Frenchman, with considerable
interest.

"Several circumstances," was her vague response, as she twisted her
curious old snake bracelet, a genuine sixteenth-century ornament which
she had bought one day in a shop on the Ponte Vecchio in Florence.

"You mistrust him--eh?"

"He poses as my father's friend, but I believe that all the time he is
jealous of his position and is his bitterest enemy."

"But they are very old friends, are they not?"

"Oh yes.  The general owes his present position entirely to my father;
otherwise he would now be in garrison in some obscure country town."

"I only wish he were," declared Dubard fervently.  "He is jealous of our
friendship.  Did you notice how he glared at me while you were singing?"

"And yet at table you were such good friends," she laughed.

"It is not polite to exhibit ill-feeling in a friend's house,
mademoiselle," was his calm response.  "Yet I admit that I entertain no
greater affection for the fellow than you do."

"But why should he object to our friendship?" she exclaimed.  "If he
were unmarried, and in love with me, it would of course be different."

"No," he said.  "He hates me."

"Why?"

Jules Dubard was silent, his dark eyes were fixed away across the
moon-lit lawn.

"Why?" she repeated.  "Tell me!"

"Well, he has cause to hate me--that's all," and he smiled mysteriously.

"But he's a dangerous man," she declared, with quick apprehension.  "You
probably don't know so much of him as I do.  He would betray his own
father if it suited his purpose."

"I know," laughed the man drily.  "I've heard sufficient stories
concerning him to be quite well aware of his unscrupulous character.  It
is a thousand pities that he is an associate of your father's."

"Ah yes!" she sighed.  "But how can it be avoided?  They are in office
in the same ministry, and are bound to be in constant touch with each
other.  The only thing I fear is that he has, by some intrigue,
contrived to get my father in his power," she said confidentially.

"How?  What causes you to suspect such a thing?" he inquired quickly.

"Because once or twice of late I have noticed how when he has called in
Rome and in Florence my father has been disinclined to see him, and that
after the fellow's departure he has seemed very thoughtful and
preoccupied.  More than once, too, I've heard high words between them
when they've been closeted together in the study in Rome.  I once heard
him threaten my father," she added.

"Threaten him!" cried her companion quickly.  "What did the man say?
Tell me."  All that the girl was telling him was confirming what, in his
heart, he already suspected.

"Well," she said, in a low voice of confidence, "it was early one
morning, after the last court ball, and he had driven home with us.
Afterwards my father had taken him to the study, and I had said
good-night, when, on going to my room half an hour later, I found my
maid very unwell.  Therefore I went down again, intending to get from
the study the key of the medicine cupboard, when I heard voices within,
and naturally stopped to listen.  I heard my father say distinctly, `I
won't.  I'll never be a party to such a piece of audacious robbery--why,
it's treason--treason, do you hear?  No, Angelo, not even you can induce
me to betray my country!'  Then in reply I heard the general say, `Very
well.  I have told you the course I intend to adopt.  Your refusal
places me in a critical situation, and I shall therefore save myself.'
`At my expense?' asked my father in a low, hoarse voice.  `Yes,' the man
replied.  `I shall certainly not fall without an effort to retain my
place, my liberty, depend upon it.  And when the truth is out regarding
the Sazarac affair, this high moral standard that you are now adopting
will avail you but little.'  Then there was a silence.  At last my
father asked in a tone of reproach, `You actually intend to betray me,
Angelo?--you, who owe your rank, your position, everything to me!  Tell
me, you are surely joking?'  `No,' replied the fellow, `I am in earnest.
You must act as I have suggested, or take the consequences'?"

"You are certain--quite certain--that Borselli mentioned the Sazarac
affair?" asked the Frenchman, in deep earnestness and surprise.  "I mean
that you distinctly heard the name of Sazarac mentioned?"

"Distinctly.  Why?"

But the Frenchman made no reply.  How could he tell her?  What she had
related revealed to him a strange and startling truth--a truth which
held him amazed, aghast.

CHAPTER FOUR.

CONTAINS A MYSTERY.

In the rector's cosy little study at Thornby, George Macbean sat that
same evening smoking his pipe, perplexed and puzzled.

In the zone of light shed by the green-shaded reading-lamp the rector, a
stout, good-humoured, round-faced man of forty, sat writing a letter,
while his nephew, lounging back in the old leather arm-chair before the
fireplace, drew heavy whiffs at his pipe, with his eyes fixed straight
upon the well-filled bookcase before him.

That day he had become a changed man.

From the first moment he had bowed to Mary Morini, when his uncle had
introduced him at Orton, he had been struck by her marvellous grace and
beauty, and this admiration had daily increased until now he was
compelled to acknowledge within himself that he was deeply in love with
her.

He smiled bitterly as the truth made itself manifest.  He had been over
head and ears in love with half a dozen women in his time, but he had
always in a few weeks discovered their defects, their ambitions, and
their lack of womanliness, without which a woman is no woman.  He
supposed it would be the same again, for he was not a man who wore his
heart upon his sleeve.

And yet he had discovered that a mystery surrounded her--a mystery that
attracted him.

The dead quiet of the night was unbroken save for the scratching of the
rector's pen, for the village of Thornby, like all agricultural
villages, goes to bed early and rises with the dawn.  The solemn bell in
the old church-tower struck ten as Mr Sinclair scribbled the
superscription, blotted it, and rose from the table to fill his own
pipe.

"Why, George, my boy, you're glum to-night.  What's the matter?"

"I really didn't know I was," laughed his nephew.  "I was only thinking.
And I didn't want to disturb you."

"Nothing disturbs me--except babies in church," declared the big fellow,
laughing deeply.  He was a good type of the easy-going bachelor parson
in the enjoyment of a comfortable living and popularity in local
society.  He was fond of golf and cricket, was a good judge of a horse,
a good shot, and frequently rode to hounds.

He filled his well-coloured briar carefully, lit it, and then casting
himself into the chair opposite his nephew, said with a laugh--

"I noticed you were very chummy with Mary Morini.  Well, what do you
think of her?"

"Very charming," responded the young man, rather annoyed at his uncle's
chaff.

"All the men about here rave over her beauty--and they have cause to, no
doubt.  She's a very entertaining companion and possesses a keen sense
of humour--one of those girls who attract a man without being aware of
it.  That's the chief essential in a woman's grace."

"But who are these Morinis?" inquired Macbean, removing his pipe from
his mouth.  "Nobody seems to know exactly who or what they are."

"You're quite right," responded his uncle, in a rather changed tone.
"Quite between ourselves, I've heard that question asked a good many
times.  Morini himself seems a bit of a recluse, for he seldom goes
anywhere.  Indeed, I haven't spoken to him more than half a dozen times
in my life.  But Madame Morini and her daughter are taken up by the
local people because of their apparent affluence and because they rent
Orton from Lady Straker."

"What kind of man is this Morini?" asked Macbean, in an idle tone.

"Oh, rather gentlemanly, with a lot of elegant pose.  Speaks English
very well for a foreigner, and smokes a very excellent brand of cigar.
But, if the truth were told, he's looked upon here with a good deal of
suspicion.  Ill-natured people say that he's a foreign adventurer who
comes here in hiding from the police," he added, laughing.

The young man blew a long cloud of smoke from his lips, and remained
silent.  He was trying to recall a face he had seen--the face of a man,
evidently a foreigner, who had passed them in a dogcart as they were on
the road home from Orton.  The man's features had puzzled him ever
since.  They were familiar, yet he could not recollect in what
circumstances they had met before.

In his position as secretary to the Member for South-West Norfolk he met
many men, yet somehow he held a distinct idea that in the misty past
this man had created upon him some impression of evil.

"You recollect," he exclaimed at last, "that just before we came to the
cross-roads to Calthorpe we passed a dogcart coming out from Rugby, with
a groom in dark green livery."

"Yes.  It was Morini's cart.  The man in it is a guest at Orton," was
the rector's reply.  "More than that," he added, "he's said to be
engaged--or about to be engaged--to the girl you admire so much."

"Oh, that's interesting!" remarked Macbean.  "Do you know the man's
name?"

"He's a young French count named Dubard.  I've met him here several
times; he seems quite a decent fellow for a Frenchman."

"Dubard?  Dubard?" repeated the young man aloud, starting forward as
though a sudden revelation had flashed upon him.  "Surely he can't be
Jules Dubard, the--"

"The what?" asked the rector quickly.

His nephew hesitated, recognising how he had narrowly betrayed the
secret of that recognition.  Then he added quite coolly--

"The Frenchman."

Basil Sinclair, disappointed at this clever evasion, looked his nephew
straight in the face, and from the pallor of his cheeks saw that
whatever recollections had been conjured up by mention of that name they
were evidently the reverse of pleasing.

"His name is certainly Jules, and he is a Frenchman," he said gravely.
"But you know something about him.  I see it in your face."

The young man smiled, and lolling back again in the big easy-chair,
answered with admirable coolness, considering the bewildering truth that
had at that moment flashed upon him--

"I am only surprised that Miss Morini should become engaged to a
Frenchman.  She told me to-day that her greatest regret is that they
cannot live in England always."

"Ah, my boy, she's a thorough-going cosmopolitan," replied the rector,
his pipe still between his teeth.  "Such women always marry foreigners.
I daresay her father would object if she wanted to marry an Englishman.
He's a man who evidently means his daughter to marry a title."

"In Italy it is rather a claim to distinction not to possess a title,"
laughed his nephew, recollecting how many penniless counts and marquises
he had come across during those happy years when he lived with his Uncle
Pietro in the white, half-deserted old city of Pisa.

"Morini is Italian to the backbone, with all the Italian's admiration
for England and yet with all the Italian's prejudices.  You'll say so
when you know him."

"But this count?" exclaimed Macbean.  "Tell me what you know about him."

"You know more than I do, my dear George," declared Sinclair, with a sly
smile, "only you don't choose to tell me.  You hold an opinion that he
is not a fit and proper person to become the husband of Morini's
daughter.  Admit it."

"I don't yet know who Morini really is," responded his nephew, with a
clever diplomacy.  "You have not yet told me the general impression in
the neighbourhood regarding the family."

"As I have already said, they're looked upon with distinct suspicion."

"Because they are foreigners--eh?"

"Possibly.  We are very insular here in Leicestershire, notwithstanding
the increasing foreign element in the hunting-field."

George slowly knocked the ashes from his pipe, saying--

"We English hold the foreigner in too great contempt.  We are apt to
forget that there are other Powers constantly conspiring to undermine
our strength and to overthrow our sovereignty.  The rural stay-at-home
entertains a belief in England's security that is really childish in its
simplicity, and if we have not a wise king, a strong Cabinet, and shrewd
men in our diplomatic service, the mine must explode some day, depend
upon it."

"Ah," laughed the rector, "I suppose it's your parliamentary
associations that make you talk like that.  You told me you sometimes
prepare speeches for Morgan-Mason to deliver to his constituents.  Is
that one of his texts?"

"No, not exactly," replied the other, with a good-humoured smile.  "I
only speak what I think.  The ignorance of the public regarding
foreigners is simply appalling.  They are in utter ignorance of the
state of advancement of certain foreign nations as compared with our
own.  We are always slow and conservative, while they are quick to adopt
new inventions, new ideas, and new schemes of progress."

"Mostly gingerbread," remarked the rector.

"Argument upon that point is unnecessary," said Macbean, growing
serious.  "I only emphasise the fact that a foreign family in England is
at a far greater disadvantage than an English family on the Continent.
The former is held in suspicion or shunned, while the latter is feted
and welcomed.  Ah, my dear uncle, society, with all its sins and vices,
is full of amazing prejudices."

"But of course there is another side to the question of the Morinis,"
his uncle said.  "It got abroad last year that Morini held some very
high position in Rome.  Young Barton, the schoolmaster at Kilworth, went
with one of Lunn's tours to Italy, and when he came back he told an
extraordinary story of how the party were being shown the outside of one
of the public offices when a gentleman descended from a carriage which
drove into the courtyard, and as he entered the sentries saluted.  To
his surprise he recognised him as Mr Morini, and on inquiry understood
from one of the doorkeepers that he was His Excellency the Minister of
War.  Of course nobody believed him.  But I've looked in `Whitaker,'
and, strangely enough, it gives Signor Camillo Morini as Minister of
War!"

"Ah, my dear uncle," laughed Macbean, "of course regard it as entirely
confidential, but what Barton discovered is the truth.  Signor Morini is
a member of the Italian Cabinet, and one of the most prominent
personages in Italy--and they actually believe him _here_ to be an
adventurer!" he laughed.  "But," he added, "you haven't told me about
Dubard."

"I know practically nothing, except that he stayed at Orton for a month
last summer, and was very attentive to Mary.  And as he's here again
this season, the gossips say they are engaged.  He is a rich man, I
hear, with estates in the Pyrenees."

George Macbean's lip curled slightly, and he gave vent to a distinct
sniff of dissatisfaction.  He had recognised him as they had passed on
the highroad, and yet, until his uncle had mentioned the name of Dubard,
he had been puzzled as to the man's actual identity.

To him, the fact that the Frenchman was guest at Orton, and engaged to
the Minister's daughter, was utterly staggering.  Yet rumour did not say
there was really an engagement--or at least it had not been formally
announced.

The young man relit his pipe and smoked on in silence, his brows knit,
his mind full of a certain scene of the past--a scene conjured up in his
memory by sight of that pale, narrow face with the brown moustache--a
scene that caused his hands to clench themselves and his teeth to close
together firmly.

"Do tell me what you know about the Frenchman," urged the rector.

"No, thank you, my dear uncle," responded the other.  "I know too well
these gossiping villages, and I hold the law of slander in too great a
dread.  The count is all right," he laughed.  "A very nice fellow, you
said."

His uncle saw that he had no intention of saying a word against the
visitor at Orton, and yet at the same time it was apparent that he held
him in distinct mistrust.  Yet, after all, reflected the rector, it was
curious that George had not recognised him at once.

Macbean sat back watching the smoke curl slowly up, plunged in deep
reflection.  That man of all others was to marry Mary Morini!  What a
cruel vagary of Fate!  Did she really love the fellow? he wondered.  Had
his elegant airs and graces, his stiff poses, and French effeminacy
really attracted her?  To him it seemed impossible.  She was too sweet
and womanly, too modest and full of the higher ideals of life, to allow
that veneer of polish to deceive her.  It might be, of course, that the
marriage was to be one of convenience--that the Minister wished his
daughter to become a French countess with an ancient title like that of
Dubard--yet he could not conceive that she would of her own free will
marry such a man.

Evidently His Excellency Camillo Morini was in blind ignorance of the
character of his guest, or he would never for a moment entertain him in
the bosom of his family.

If they were really engaged, then her future was at stake.  He alone
knew the truth--that ghastly, amazing truth--and it was therefore his
bounden duty to go to her and frankly tell her all that he knew--or
better, to seek an interview with the Minister and place the facts
before him.

When he had bidden his uncle good-night and mounted to the small
old-fashioned bedroom, he blew out the candle and sat at the open window
gazing out upon the wide stretch of pasture land white in the moonbeams,
reviewing the whole situation and endeavouring to decide upon the best
course of action.

Mary Morini had charmed him with her sweet face and piquante
cosmopolitan manner, yet at that same moment he had made a discovery
that held him dumb in amazement.  He recognised that she was in deadly
peril--how deadly she little dreamed, and that to save her--to save the
honour of her family--he must tell the truth.

He saw before him the tragedy of silence, and yet, alas! his lips were
sealed.

To utter one single word of what he knew would be to bring upon himself
opprobrium, disgrace, ruin!

CHAPTER FIVE.

IS MAINLY ABOUT A WOMAN.

George Macbean had, after a long, sleepless night, made up his mind.

When he descended to breakfast next morning he announced to his uncle
his intention of cycling into Rugby, well knowing that the rector had to
give a lesson in religious instruction in the village school, and would
therefore not be able to accompany him.

So, in determination to meet the Frenchman face to face, to expose him
and thus save Mary, even at risk of his own disgrace, he mounted and
rode away down the white, dusty highroad.

Instead of going into Rugby, however, he turned off at Lilbourne, and
rode over the road along which they had driven the previous evening, to
Orton.

Eleven o'clock was certainly a rather unconventional hour for calling,
but as he dismounted at the gates and walked his machine up the long,
well-kept drive he had already invented an excuse.  As he passed the
study window he saw within a tall, elderly, grave-faced man in a suit of
light grey tweed, and at once recognised that it was His Excellency
himself.

In answer to his ring at the door, a young English footman appeared,
whereupon he asked--

"Is Count Dubard at home?"

"The count left this morning by the nine o'clock train."

"Left!" echoed Macbean.  "And is he not returning?"

"I think not, sir.  He took his luggage.  But I will inquire if you'll
step in a moment."

The man had conducted him across the wide old-fashioned stone hall into
a pleasant morning-room which looked out upon the flower-garden and was
flooded with sunshine, and after the lapse of a few moments the door
reopened and there entered Mary herself, a charming figure in a fresh
white blouse and linen skirt.

"Why, Mr Macbean!" she cried, extending her hand gaily.  "You are quite
an unexpected visitor!  Davis says you want to see Count Dubard.  He
left for Paris this morning."

"And is he not coming back?"

"No, I believe not," was her answer.  "He received a letter this morning
calling him to Paris at once, and dashed off to try and catch the eleven
o'clock service from Charing Cross.  He just had time, he said.  He was
anxious to see you, I think."

"Anxious to see me--why?" asked Macbean quickly.

"Last night he told me that he recognised you as you were driving home
with Mr Sinclair, and asked if I knew you.  I, of course, told him that
you had been playing tennis here.  He seemed very eager to see you, and
made quite a lot of inquiries about you."

Her companion was silent.  The recognition had been mutual, then, and
the story of the urgent letter was only an excuse of the Frenchman's to
escape from a very ugly and compromising position!  His flight showed
Macbean that the fellow was in fear of him, and yet he had fortunately
avoided a scene between them, and a result which, in all probability,
might have caused his own ruin.

He looked at the bright, sweet-faced woman before him, and wondered--
wondered how she could allow her affection to be attracted towards such
a fellow.  And yet what an admirable actor the man was!  She was, alas!
in ignorance of it all.

How could he tell her?  To explain, would only be to condemn himself.
No.  He resolved that for the present he must conceal his secret--for
his own sake.  Nevertheless how strange it was, he thought, that he
should thus suddenly be drawn so closely towards her.  Yesterday she was
a mere acquaintance of the tea-table and the tennis-lawn, like dozens of
other girls he knew, while to-day he was there as her friend and
protector, the man who intended to save her and her family from the
ingenious trap that he now saw was already prepared.

"I'm sorry he's gone," he remarked in a tone of regret, adding, "I knew
him long ago, and only after we had passed, my uncle told me that he was
a guest here."

"He too said he wanted very much to see you," she remarked brightly.
"But you'll meet again very soon, no doubt.  I shall tell him of your
inquiries when I write, for he spoke of you in the warmest terms.  I did
not know your address in London, so I gave him Mr Sinclair's.  I'm so
sorry he's gone," she added.  "We were to have all gone for a picnic
to-day over to Kenilworth."

"And instead of that the central attraction has disappeared," he
hazarded, with a smile.

"What do you mean by `central attraction'?" she asked, flushing
slightly.

"My friend Dubard, of course.  I suppose what everyone says is correct,
Miss Morini, and therefore I may be permitted to congratulate you upon
your engagement to my friend?"

"Oh, there is no engagement, I assure you," was her reply, as she looked
at him with open frankness, her cheeks betraying a slightly heightened
colour.  "I know there's quite a lot of gossip about it, but the rumours
are entirely without foundation," she laughed; and as she sat there in
the deep old window-seat, he recognised that, notwithstanding the
refined and dignified beauty of a woman who was brilliant in a brilliant
court, she still retained a soft simplicity and a virgin innocence; she
was a woman whose first tears would spring from compassion, "suffering
with those that she saw suffer."  She had no acquired scruples of
honour, no coy concealments, no assumed dignity standing in its own
defence.  Her bashfulness as they spoke together was less a quality than
an instinct; like the self-folding flower, spontaneous and unconscious.
Cosmopolitan life in that glare and glitter of aristocratic Rome--that
circle where, from the innate distrust women have of each other, the
dread of the betrayed confidence and jealous rivalry, they made no
friends, and were indeed ignorant of the true meaning of friendship,
where flattery and hypocrisy were the very air and atmosphere and
mistrust lay in every hand-clasp and lurked in every glance--had already
opened Mary Morini's eyes to the hollow shams, the manifold hypocrisies,
and the lamentable insincerity of social intimacies, and she had
recoiled from it with disgust.

She had retained her woman's heart, for that was unalterable and
inalienable as a part of her being; but her looks, her language, her
thoughts, assumed to George Macbean, as he stood there beneath the spell
of her beauty, the cast of the pure ideal.

And yet she loved Jules Dubard!

He bit his lip and gazed out of the old diamond panes upon the tangle of
red and white roses around the lawn.

Ah! how he longed to speak to her in confidence--to reveal to her the
secret that now oppressed his heart until he seemed stifled by its
ghastliness.

But it was utterly impossible, he told himself.  Now that Dubard had
fled, he must find other and secret means by which to acquaint her with
the truth, and at the same time shield himself from the Frenchman's
crushing revenge.

He contrived to conceal the storm of emotion that tore his heart, and
laughed with her about the unfounded rumours that had got abroad
concerning her engagement, saying--

"Of course in a rural neighbourhood like this the villagers invent all
kinds of reports based upon their own surmises."

"Yes," she declared.  "They really know more about our business than we
do ourselves.  Only fancy!  That I am engaged to marry Count Dubard--
ridiculous!"

"Why ridiculous?" he asked, standing before her.

"Well--because it is!" she laughed, her fine eyes meeting his quite
frankly.  "I'm not engaged, Mr Macbean.  So if you hear such a report
again you can just flatly deny it."

"I shall certainly do so," he declared, "and I shall reserve my
congratulations for a future occasion."

She then turned the conversation to tennis, evidently being averse to
the further discussion of the man who had courted and flattered her so
assiduously--the man who was her father's friend--and presently she took
Macbean out across the lawn to introduce him to her father, who had
seated himself in a long cane chair beneath the great cedar, and was
reading his Italian paper.

His Excellency looked up as they approached, whereupon Mary exclaimed--

"This is Mr Macbean, father.  He wishes to salute you.  He was here
yesterday playing tennis, but you were not visible."

"Very glad to meet you, sir," exclaimed Camillo Morini, rising, grasping
the young man's hand, and raising his grey felt hat.  "You know," he
explained, as he reseated himself, "I am a busy man, and so I have but
little opportunity of meeting my wife's English friends.  But," he
added, in very good English, after a slight pause, as he readjusted his
gold-rimmed glasses and looked harder at the young man, "if I am not
mistaken, we have met before, have we not?  I seem to recognise your
face."

"Yes, your Excellency," laughed Macbean, whereupon both Mary and her
father started in surprise, for it was apparent that their visitor was
aware of Morini's true position.  "I had the honour of having an
audience of your Excellency in Rome.  I am secretary to Mr
Morgan-Mason, and accompanied him to Rome on the deputation which waited
upon you regarding the concession of supplying army stores in
Abyssinia."

"Of course, of course!" exclaimed the Minister, suddenly interested.  "I
recollect quite well.  You introduced the deputation, and I remember
remarking how well you spoke Italian for an Englishman.  Ah yes.  I
could not give the concession, as it had already been given to a German
firm," he added, omitting, however, the real reason, namely, because the
English company had offered no secret commission.  "And you are
secretary to Morgan-Mason?  He is a deputy, I believe."

Macbean explained that his employer sat for South-West Norfolk, and in
response to other inquiries gave certain information concerning his
politics and his social influence, facts of which the clever Minister
made a note; for an idea had occurred to him that the monied
provision-dealer whose pompousness had struck him as he had sat in his
private cabinet at the Ministry of War might be one day of service to
him.

All through his career it had been part of Camillo Morini's creed to
note persons who might be of assistance to him, and to afterwards use
their influence, or their weaknesses, to his advantage.  A keen judge of
character, he read men's minds as he would an open book.  He had
recognised the weakness of that white-waistcoated Englishman who was
struggling into society, and he resolved that one day both the Member of
Parliament and his secretary should be put to their proper uses.

"Mr Macbean called to see Count Dubard, who is a friend of his," his
daughter explained.

"Oh, you are acquainted!  How curious!" exclaimed His Excellency.
"Dubard unfortunately left this morning--because he received a letter
which recalled him at once to Paris.  But as my valet tells me that no
letters arrived for the count this morning, I can only surmise that he
was tired of us here, and found country life in England too dull," he
laughed knowingly.  "I've received the same fictitious letter myself
before now, when I've been tired of a host and hostess."

And they all three laughed in chorus.  His Excellency was of course
unaware of the real reason of Jules Dubard's flight, and the young
Englishman smiled within himself as he reflected upon the staggering
surprise it would cause that calm, astute man who was such a power in
the south of Europe if he knew the actual truth.

"Of course," added Signor Morini, turning to the young man, "you will do
me one kind favour?  You will not mention to anyone here my true
position.  I come to England each year for rest and quiet, and if I am
unknown no political significance can be attached to my summer visits--
you understand?"

"Certainly, your Excellency, I shall respect your wishes," was Macbean's
reply, and a few minutes later he took leave of the great statesman and
his daughter, and, full of strange conflicting reflections, rode out
upon the broad highway back to Thornby.

CHAPTER SIX.

DISCLOSES CERTAIN STRANGE FACTS.

As Big Ben boomed forth twelve o'clock over London that same night the
supper-room at the Savoy was filled to overflowing with a boisterous,
well-dressed crowd of after-theatre revellers.  The scene was brighter
and gayer perhaps than any other scene at that hour in all the giant
city.  The "smart set," that slangy, vulgar result of society's
degeneration, was as largely represented as usual; the women were fair,
the jewels sparkled, the dresses were rich, and in the atmosphere was
that restlessness, that perpetual craze for excitement which proves so
attractive to habitues of the place.

Every table in the great room was engaged, and the company was
essentially _le monde ou l'on s'amuse_.  But you probably have sat there
amid the hurrying of the waiters, the hum of voices, the loud laughter
of "smart women," the clinking of champagne-glasses, that babel of noise
drowned by the waltzes played by the Hungarian band.  The air was heavy
with the combined odour of a hundred perfumes, the fresh flowers drooped
upon the tables, and the merry company crowded into that last half-hour
all the merriment they could before the lights were lowered.

At such places one sees exhibited in public the full, true, and sole
omnipotence of money--how it wins the impoverished great ones to be
guests of its possessor, how it purchases the smiles of the haughtiest,
the favours of the most exclusive.

Lazily watching that animated scene, the two men who had been guests at
Orton, Dubard and Borselli, were sitting apart at a small table near the
window.  A bottle of Krug stood between them, and as they leaned their
elbows on the table they criticised their fellow-guests, speaking in
Italian, so that their remarks should not be understood by their
neighbours.

The band had just concluded Desgranges' "Jalouse," that air so
reminiscent of the terrace of the Cafe de Paris at Monte Carlo, the
leader had bowed to the company, and the waiters were busy collecting
the banknotes with which the bills were in most cases paid, when the
Italian drained his glass, saying--

"Let us go!  I've had enough of this!  Come on to Claridge's with me for
a final cigar."

"A moment?" exclaimed Dubard, his eyes fixed across the room.  "Do you
see over there, just behind the column, two ladies with a stout man with
grey side-whiskers?  One of the ladies is in blue.  What a terrible
vulgarian the fellow is!  I've been watching him."

The general glanced in the direction indicated and replied--

"Oh yes, I noticed him as we came in.  You're right, my dear Jules, that
fellow is a vulgarian.  I met him once in Rome.  His name is
Morgan-Mason, a deputy and very wealthy."

"Morgan-Mason!" echoed the Frenchman, looking hard at him.  "Ah!" he
added, "I've heard of him, of course.  Yes.  Let us go," and they both
rose, descended by the lift, and drove in a hansom to Claridge's.

In the Under-Secretary's elegant little sitting-room--the room wherein
that afternoon he had accepted the German contractor's bribe on Morini's
behalf--he drew forth a box of choice cigars, and they both commenced to
smoke.

A brief and rather painful silence fell between them.  Both men had that
evening exhibited towards each other a strained politeness, each knowing
that the other hated him.  Dubard's defiance on the previous night had
upset all the calculations of that past-master of intrigue, Angelo
Borselli, whose dark eyes now darted a swift glance at his companion
lolling back in the big arm-chair apparently perfectly at his ease.

To Borselli's surprise, and believing that his departure had been due to
his threat on the previous night, Dubard had left Rugby for London an
hour before he had, but at four o'clock that afternoon he had sent an
invitation to the Carlton, suggesting that they should spend the evening
together at a theatre, which they had done.

There was a mystery in the Frenchman's sudden departure from Orton, and
in it Borselli suspected an ingenious move.  Throughout the whole day he
had reasoned within himself, finally coming to the conclusion that it
was better to be friendly with such a man as Jules Dubard than to be his
enemy.

Dubard had seen during the evening that his companion wished to speak
with him but was hesitating.  At last, however, after they had smoked in
silence for some minutes, the crafty Sicilian stroked his moustache and
exclaimed--

"I fear, my dear Jules, that I was rather hasty, perhaps rude, last
night.  Yet, after all, I am very glad that you took my hint and left
Orton."

The Frenchman opened his eyes widely at the man's calm audacity.

"I did not take your hint in the least, I assure you," he exclaimed,
with quick indignation.  "I left Orton for quite another reason."

The sallow-faced man smiled, as though quite unconscious of his
companion's anger.

"Yes," he said.  "I know.  You cannot deceive me."

"You know?" cried the Frenchman, starting to his feet.  "What do you
know?  Have you invited me up here to threaten me again?"

"I merely say that I know the reason why you received the letter calling
you to Paris this morning," replied the Under-Secretary in a cold, calm
voice.  "It was because you met and were recognised by a certain
Englishman named Macbean, the secretary of that vulgar fellow we saw
eating his supper half an hour ago."

Dubard's jaw fell.  He saw that by some utterly unaccountable means his
enemy was aware of the real reason which compelled him to fly from
Leicestershire.

Was it possible that he could know the whole truth?  No; it was
impossible.  Macbean dare not speak.  Of that he felt quite assured.

"Ah?" continued the general, a grim smile crossing his thin, hard
features as he narrowly watched his companion.  "You see I am not quite
as ignorant of the past as you believe, my dear Jules."

"Nor am I!" cried the Frenchman, turning upon him savagely.  "Last night
you threatened me, remember!"

"And to-night I have invited you here, my dear friend, to arrive at some
amicable agreement that will be to our mutual advantage," answered the
clever Under-Secretary, with a suavity of manner which showed him to be
a born diplomat.

"Yes, I know," answered the other in a dry, hard voice.  "This is not
the first time you and I have discussed matters, General Borselli.  I
know that if it suited you you'd betray your own mother.  You have no
conscience, no code of honour?"

"My code of honour is exactly the same as yours, _caro mio_," replied
the Italian, laughing.  "I try to turn all I can into profit for myself,
just as you are trying to do.  My maxim is `self first.'"

"And for that reason you are plotting the downfall of Morini and the
whole Ministry!"

"A work in which you are actively assisting," added the Under-Secretary.

"I did not come here to be insulted," Dubard protested.

"Neither did I invite you here to pose as a censor of political
morality," responded his shrewd companion, looking straight and
determinedly into his pale face.  "But why should we quarrel, when it is
to our mutual interests to remain friendly?"

"I have not quarrelled.  Last night you objected to me visiting the
Morinis."

"Because I am well aware of your object."

"I admit that I intend to marry Mary," and he removed his cigar from his
mouth and examined it.

"And you have also a further object in view, my dear count--one that is
even more interesting," declared Borselli, "a plan that I can very
easily frustrate."

"Well, you told me that last night," he said.  "And I, on my part,
frankly declare that I do not in the least fear any revelations you can
make."

"Not of the affair of General Sazarac?" whispered the cunning Italian,
his dark eyes fixed upon the younger man as he bent towards him.  "Have
you so completely forgotten certain events which, if recalled, would
mean--well, they would mean that you would neither marry Morini's
daughter nor be successful in the next very ingenious trick by which you
intend to make a grand _coup_ at the expense of my country."

At the mention of the name of General Sazarac the other's face blanched,
and holding his breath he stood glaring at the man who with raised
eyebrows smiled so calmly at him.  He saw that this political adventurer
was aware of a certain deep, terrible secret of the past which he
believed was buried for ever.  His enemy's attitude of cool confidence
was sufficient to bring him at once to a sense of his insecurity.

"Well?" he managed to gasp.  "And what is your proposal?"

"Ah, my dear friend, I am glad you are ready to listen to reason,"
responded the Sicilian.  "We must both face the future unshrinkingly,
you know.  You have your own schemes; I have mine.  By acting in accord
we shall succeed, but if we are enemies then we shall commit the very
foolish and unpardonable error of exposing each other.  I know quite
well that there are certain rather unfortunate incidents regarding my
own career, those disagreeable little matters of which you have
knowledge, and by which you could retaliate.  You see, I do not for a
single moment intend to deny them.  On the contrary, I frankly suggest
that by an agreement of silence we can be helpful in each other's
interests.  We both desire advancement, and can gain it through the
medium of Morini.  Are you not agreed?"

Dubard, slowly convinced that without the general's aid he must be
powerless and in peril, nodded in the affirmative.  He did not discern
the wily man's ulterior motive, or the secret reason of the proposed
compact.

"Your primary object, my dear Jules, is of course money," the general
went on.  "Now, by a simple written declaration I shall absolve you from
all connection with the Sazarac affair, while you, on your part, will
deny my connection with that ugly little matter in Rome two years ago.
Both of us will then emerge again honest and upright--models of virtue.
Bygones will be bygones.  I shall go my way, you will go yours; I to
assist you, and you to help me--a perfectly reciprocal arrangement.  I
shall become Minister, while you--well, you will by a single _coup_
become a rich man, and at the same time gain a very charming wife."

"And Morini?"

The Under-Secretary elevated his shoulders and exhibited his palms.

"And the Englishman Macbean?"

"He is a mere fly in amber," declared the Sicilian, with a sinister
smile.  "Fortune lies before us in Italy, my dear Jules--for you wealth
and a wife; for me, office and distinction.  By acting in accord we have
nothing whatever to fear.  Morini dare not disobey us, and Macbean,
being a poor man, will easily fall into our power.  Leave him entirely
to me.  I have a scheme by which he will shortly discover that his whole
future depends upon his silence, and that a single indiscreet word will
mean his ruin."

"And if that fails?"

"Then there is still that effective method which was adopted towards
Sazarac--you understand?"

The Frenchman nodded, darting a swift glance at the thin-featured man
before him.

He understood too well.

CHAPTER SEVEN.

AN AFTERNOON AT THORNBY.

The Thornby Flower-Show was held a week later in the rectory grounds,
the work of arrangement chiefly devolving upon the bluff, good-natured
rector and his nephew George.

The little rural fete, encouraged by the richer residents, was, like
other village flower-shows, the annual occasion for the cottagers to
exhibit their "twelve best varieties of vegetables," their "six best
pot-plants," the ferns from their windows, and such-like horticultural
possessions.  Though quite a small show, it was typically English, well
managed, and therefore always attended by people from the big houses in
the neighbourhood, whose gardeners themselves competed in the open
classes.

The judges--three gardeners from a distance--had inspected the exhibits
in the marquee, and having made their awards, had, together with the
committee, consisting of the local butcher and baker and two or three
cottagers, all in their Sunday clothes and wearing blue rosettes, been
entertained to luncheon by Mr Sinclair, when just before two o'clock
the village band in uniform filed in at the garden-gate and put up their
music-stands on the lawn.  Then, as the church clock struck two, the
villagers were admitted, each exhibitor making a rush for the tent,
anxious to ascertain whether his exhibit bore the coloured card
indicative of a prize.

At half-past two several smart carriages had driven up, and at last came
the Morini landau, containing Mr Morini and his wife and daughter Mary.
Basil Sinclair and George having welcomed them at the gate, Mr Morini
was conducted to a small platform on the lawn, where, after a few words
of introduction from the rector, he made a short speech in fairly good
English, declaring the flower-show open.

Afterwards the party were conducted round the show by Sinclair, while
George, of course, walked with Mary, who looked cool and sweet in a
simple gown of pale grey voile, with a large grey hat to match.

As they walked around the tent, close beneath the noonday sun and heavy
with the odour of vegetables and perfume of flowers, she congratulated
him upon the success of the show.

Thornby always looked forward to the flower-show, for it was a gala day
for the village; its four shops were closed, across the road at the top
of the hill the committee stretched a string of gay bunting, and when
dusk came the rectory garden was illuminated and there was dancing on
the lawn.  Thornby made every occasion an excuse for a dance, and the
annual _al fresco_ ball on the rector's lawn was the chief event of the
year.

It was His Excellency's first visit to the rectory, therefore Mr
Sinclair showed him the old-fashioned house, the grounds, the quaint old
fifteenth-century church with its curious sculptured tombs, old carved
oak and monumental brasses, while Mrs Morini, meeting several ladies of
her acquaintance on the lawn, left Mary free to walk and talk with
George Macbean.

For a whole long week of never-ending days he had been eagerly
anticipating that meeting.  Never for one moment had he ceased to think
of her.  The sweet, fair-faced girl was in peril, he knew, and if it
were possible he intended to save her.  But how?  Ah! that was the
question.

Although so deeply in love with her, he was judicious enough to save
appearances, knowing well that the eyes of the whole countryside were
upon him.  The rustic is ever on the alert to discover defects in his
master, and gossip in a village generally errs on the side of
ill-nature.  Therefore he was careful to appear gallant, and yet not too
pressing in his attentions--a somewhat difficult feat with the strong
ardour of love burning within him.

They were strolling together through the quaint old flower-garden
sloping gently away towards the placid river, where they found
themselves alone, when Mary, turning her beautiful face to him, suddenly
said--

"I had no idea, Mr Macbean, that you had met my father in Rome.  He was
very much interested the other day, and after you had gone made quite a
lot of inquiries about you."

"It was very kind of him," was the young man's laughing reply.  "I
merely went as interpreter to Mr Morgan-Mason, who had business at your
Ministry of War."

Then, as they halted beneath the trees at the water's edge, where there
was a cool, refreshing breeze, she exclaimed suddenly, with a slight
sigh, "Ah, how I wish we always lived in dear old England!  I always
look back upon my schooldays by the sea as the happiest in all my life;
but now,"--and she drew a long breath again.  "It is so different in
Italy."

Yes.  She was sad, he recognised--very sad.  But why?  Her young heart
seemed oppressed by some hidden grief.  He saw it in her fine dark eyes
at the moments when she was serious.  Time after time, as he spoke to
her and she answered, he recognised that upon her mind rested some heavy
burden which oppressed and crushed her.  Her resolute yet gentle spirit,
her simple, serious, domestic turn of mind distinguished her from all
the other women of his acquaintance.  Her reveries, her simplicity, her
melancholy, her sensibility, her fortitude, her perfectly feminine
bearing, even though that of a cosmopolitan, were the characteristics of
a womanly woman--a woman who would struggle unsubdued against the
strangest vicissitudes of fortune, meeting with unshaken constancy
reverses and disasters such as would break the most masculine spirit.

George Macbean recognised all this, and more.  He saw that she was at
heart a thoroughly English girl, fond of tennis, hockey, and a country
life, who had been transplanted into an artificial world of glare and
glitter, of empty etiquette and false friendships, and yet who, at the
same time, seemed to be held transfixed by some secret upon her
conscience.

What was it? he wondered.  Was he, after all, mistaken?

The longer he remained in her company, the more mystified did he become.
He knew too well the character of Jules Dubard; he knew that she was
marked down a victim, and he intended to stand as her friend--her
champion if need be--even at peril to himself.

As she leaned over the old wooden rail at the river brink, gazing across
the calm, unruffled waters, she chatted with gay vivacity about their
mutual friends in the neighbourhood, and related her failure at a tennis
tournament held on the previous day by a colonel's wife on the other
side of Rugby.

"I suppose you often see Count Dubard in Rome," he said at last, with
some attempt at indifference.  "He is in Italy a great deal nowadays, I
have heard."

"He was in Rome this winter," she answered.  "He often came to my
mother's receptions."

"He has a very wide circle of acquaintances, has he not?"

"Yes, mostly military men.  He seems to know half of the officers in
Rome.  I thought I knew a good many, for crowds come to us every
Thursday, but he knows far more."

"And of course your father sends him cards for the official receptions
at the Ministry of War?"

"Certainly--why?" she asked, glancing quickly at her companion with some
surprise.

"Oh, nothing," he laughed uneasily.  "I was only reflecting that he must
have a very pleasant time in Italy, that's all."

"I believe he enjoys himself," she said.  "But every foreigner who has
money and is recognised by his Embassy can have a pleasant time in Rome
if he likes."

"But not every foreigner enjoys the friendship of the Minister of War,"
he remarked--"nor of his daughter," he added, with a smile.

Her cheeks flushed slightly.

"Ah!" she protested, with one of those quaint little foreign gestures.
"There you are again, Mr Macbean!  Teasing me because these ignorant
people here say that I'm engaged to the count.  It is really too bad of
you!  Did I not assure you the other day that it is quite untrue?"

"Forgive me!" he exclaimed, raising his panama hat, bowing as though she
were an entire stranger, and yet laughing the while.  "I had no
intention of giving offence.  Envy is permitted, however--is it not?"

"Oh, it hasn't given me offence at all?" she laughed frankly.  "You see,
there's no truth in the rumour, therefore I can afford to laugh."

Her words struck him as very strange.  They seemed to convey that if the
engagement were really a fact it would cause her regret and annoyance.

"I wanted to meet Dubard so much," he remarked in a tone of regret.  "I
suppose there is no chance he will return to Orton?"

"Not this summer, I think.  He left us to go direct to Paris, and then I
believe he goes to his estate in the Pyrenees."

"But he came here intending to spend a week or so at Orton, did he not?"

"Yes; but he received a letter recalling him to France," she said.
"Father says he didn't receive any letter.  If he really didn't, he
surely could have left without telling us a lie."

Macbean smiled.  How little she knew of the real character of Jules
Dubard, the plausible _elegant_ who was such a prominent character at
the Jockey Club and in the Bois.

"Very soon," she added, in a tone of regret, "we shall have to return.
My father is due back at the Ministry on the fourth of next month, and
while he is there we shall go up to San Donato, our villa above
Florence, and stay for the vintage, which, to me, is the best time in
Italy in all the year."

"Ah yes," he sighed.  "I have always heard so.  Myself I love Italy--I
only wish I could escape from this country with its long dismal winters
and live in sunshine always."

"You would very soon tire of it," she assured him, looking him straight
in the face with her fine eyes.  "Even our bright sun gives one fever,
and our blue sky becomes so monotonous that one longs for the calm of a
grey English day."

"I would like to try it for a year or two," he declared wistfully.

"Then why don't you?"

He was silent, and their eyes met again.

"Because I am not my own master, Miss Morini," was his low response.
"My living, such as it is, lies here in England.  I am the factotum of a
man who has elevated money to be his god, and I am compelled to serve
him in silence and without complaint because it happens to be my lot in
life."

"A rather unhappy and uncomfortable one, I should imagine," she
remarked, suddenly growing grave.

"At times, yes," was his brief reply.  He did not wish to burden her
with his own disappointments and misfortunes.  She knew what was his
position, a mere secretary, and that was sufficient.  What hope could he
ever have of daring to aspire to her hand?  He might stand as her
friend, but become her lover, never!

And when, a week later, he called at Orton to wish her farewell, as his
vacation was at an end and he was compelled to return to his chambers in
the Temple, and to that room in Mr Morgan-Mason's flat in Queen Anne's
Mansions, he looked in vain in her eyes for some sign of genuine regret.
There was none.  No, she too had realised that on account of his
position love was forbidden him.

"We shall meet here again, I hope, Mr Macbean--next summer," she
exclaimed, laughing airily, as she gave him her small white hand.

"I hope so," was his fervent reply in a low, meaning voice, as their
hands clasped.

And then, with sinking heart and full of grave apprehensions regarding
her future, he bowed and left her, left her, alas! to Jules Dubard--
Jules Dubard of all men!

CHAPTER EIGHT.

THE TRAITOR.

Camillo Morini stood at the big window of his private cabinet in the
Ministry of War at Rome, gazing down upon the silent courtyard, white in
the glaring heat of afternoon.

He was dressed in a cool suit of clean white linen, as is the summer
mode in the South, and as he stood gazing out at the sentry standing in
his box motionless as a statue, he calmly smoked his after-luncheon
cigar--a good Havanna he had brought from England.  The man who was so
constantly juggling with a nation's future pressed his lips together,
and afterwards heaved a big sigh--a sigh that echoed through the big,
lofty room.

The Minister's cabinet, like all the rooms in the new War Office, was
big and bare, with a marble floor for summer, and a high stove of white
terra-cotta with broad brass bands for winter.  Upon the ceiling were
fine modern frescoes; the walls, however, unlike those of the other
rooms, which were mostly colour-washed, were papered dark red, and the
heavy furniture was covered with thick red plush; while in one corner
was a handsome marble bust of Victor Emmanuel upon a pedestal, and above
hung a large framed portrait of King Umberto, the reigning sovereign,
and a huge shield bearing the arms of Italy.  In the centre stood a huge
writing-table of carved walnut, with a great high-backed chair, the seat
of the man who ruled the army of Italy.

The doors were double, with a wide space between, so that the messenger
in uniform who lounged outside should overhear nothing, while so hemmed
in by secretaries was the Minister that he was as difficult of approach
as the very sovereign himself.

That huge square block of new stuccoed buildings, with long corridors,
enormous clerks' room, and big courtyard, the echoes of which were
awakened day and night by the regular tramp of the sentries and the
clank of arms, was at that moment a veritable hive of industry--for of
all the government departments in Rome, the War Office, with its
tremendous responsibilities, is the best conducted.

His Excellency was reflecting upon something that Angelo Borselli, the
Under-Secretary, had told him while they had been lunching together at
the club.  He recognised the seriousness of it all, and he sighed in
consequence.

Presently, while his eyes were still fixed upon that sentry erect and
motionless in his box, upon which the sun beat down so fiercely, there
was a rap at the door, and there entered the uniformed messenger who had
been on guard outside, who saluted, saying--

"General Arturo Valentini of the 6th Alpine Regiment, together with a
captain of the same regiment, crave an audience with your Excellency."

"What is the captain's name?" grunted the Minister of War.

The messenger looked at the card that had been given him, and replied--

"Captain Felice Solaro, your Excellency."

"Ah!  Solaro!  Solaro!" exclaimed Morini, tossing away his cigar.  "Show
them in."

And as he passed before the tiny mirror he glanced at himself to adjust
his cravat and see that not a single hair was awry--a habit of his
before giving audience.

A few moments later two men in uniform were ushered in.  The general,
short of stature, white-haired, with firm military step, a red face, and
white moustache, saluted and stood at attention as he entered the
Minister's presence; while the captain, a smart-looking, dark-haired man
of forty, followed his superior's example, yet as Morini darted a quick
glance at him, he visibly trembled at it.  The captain's face was white
as death, and as he stood for a moment in the awkward silence that
followed, his gloved fingers chafed his sword hilt nervously.

"Well, general?" inquired the Minister, who had never before met that
distinguished officer, but whom he, of course, knew well by repute.
Valentini had been Inspector-General of Genio fifteen years ago, and had
served Italy well in those fierce campaigns of the early sixties, as his
row of medals and decorations showed.  "Why do you wish for audience?"
he asked sharply.

"Your Excellency, I am here to crave for a more merciful sentence upon
this man," the kindly old officer answered, turning to the captain, who
stood with head bowed at his side.  "I am his commanding officer, and in
justice I wish to intercede for him."

The Minister raised his eyes in surprise, and asked--

"And what is this man's name, pray?"

"I am Felice Solaro, your Excellency," faltered the captain, as though
fearing to pronounce his own name.  "My general has travelled with me
from Piedmont to obtain audience and to implore your mercy."

"Solaro!" echoed the Minister, looking straight at him.  "Ah yes, I
remember!"  Then turning to the general, Morini added in a hard,
impatient tone--

"I cannot see why you should have troubled yourself to come to Rome on
such an errand--and without leave too!  I thought this man was under
arrest?  Is this the way you execute military justice in the north?"

"I took it upon myself to bring the captain here," was the fine old
officer's answer.

"And he wears his sword, I see!" remarked the Minister, with a sneer.
"I suppose you have taken it upon yourself to give it back to him--eh?"

"I returned him his sword temporarily, your Excellency, in order that
during our journey here no one should recognise him as the man who has
been sentenced, and further, in order that he should stand before you in
the full possession of his rights as an officer, and ask your leave to
explain."

"I have no time to hear any explanations from men who have been
condemned by court-martial, General Valentini.  It is your duty to hear
his excuses--not mine.  The whole matter is quite clear.  I have had the
papers before me, and have gone through them carefully.  They were sent
to me in England.  And if you ask me my private opinion, general, I
think that dismissal from the army and fifteen years' imprisonment is a
very light sentence upon a traitor.  Had I been on the court-martial I
should have given a life sentence."

"But, your Excellency!" gasped the unhappy captain, his face blanched,
his hands trembling, "I am innocent.  I am the victim of some clever
conspiracy, by which the real culprit has shielded himself.  I had no
chance of defending myself at the court-martial, for--"

"Silence!" cried the Minister.  "You have been tried and found guilty of
treason against your king and country.  The evidence is as plain as the
light of day, and yet you deny your guilt?"

"I do deny it," declared the unhappy captain.  "They refused to hear my
explanation."

"That is true, your Excellency," interposed the general.  "The court sat
for four days in Turin with closed doors, and as three of the officers
composing it were due to go on their annual leave, the sitting on the
fourth day was terminated hurriedly, sentence was given, and sent to you
for confirmation.  Your Excellency has confirmed it, therefore Captain
Solaro has no appeal except to yourself."

"You, as his commanding officer, were not a member of the court?"

"No, your Excellency."

"Then why should you interest yourself in a matter which does not
concern you, pray?" inquired Morini impatiently.

"Because this unfortunate affair reflects upon the honour of my
command."

"Oh, of course.  It is all very well to speak heroically after the
event!" exclaimed the Minister of War, with a hard, dry laugh.  "The
mischief has been done, and one of your officers has been found guilty
of treason--of selling a military secret to a foreign power."

"Found guilty, yes," exclaimed the unfortunate captain.  "But innocent,
nevertheless!"

Morini shrugged his shoulders, and seating himself in his writing-chair
took some official memoranda from a drawer in the table.  Then, having
glanced quickly at it, he said--

"The facts are quite plain.  This man, Felice Solaro, of the 6th Alpine
Regiment, is in garrison on Mont Gran Paradiso in the Alps, where on the
other side of the mountain, at Tresenta, we have recently constructed a
new fortress, for the protection of the frontier at that point.  This
fortress, which is sunk out of sight, has taken four and a half years to
construct, and was only completed and garrisoned six months ago.  It
commands the Oreo valley, which, in the event of hostilities with
France, would be one of the most vulnerable points on the frontier.
French agents have, time after time, endeavoured to learn something of
our works up there; but so well has the spot been guarded that only two
agents have succeeded in obtaining sight of it, and both were arrested
and are now in prison as spies.  And yet, in spite of all this, there
was found in Solaro's quarters by an orderly fragments of a curious
letter in French addressed to `Mon cher Felice,' acknowledging receipt
of the plans, thanking him, and enclosing the sum agreed upon in Italian
banknotes."

"The letter was never addressed to me," the captain cried.  "I know
nothing of it.  The whole thing was a conspiracy to ruin and disgrace
me!"

"But there are other facts supplied by the secret service," went on the
Minister in a dry, hard tone, turning to the accused man.  "You spent
your last leave in Paris; you were seen by one of our agents in the
company of a man well-known to be a French spy.  You went to various
places of amusement with him, drank with him at the Hotel Chatham, at
the Grand Cafe, and other places, and," added Morini, looking him
straight in the face, "and what is more, he lent you money.  Do you deny
that?"

The captain stood glaring at his accuser, utterly dumbfounded.  This
latter truth had not been given in evidence against him.  The Minister
therefore held certain secret information of which he was in entire
ignorance.  He had been watched in Paris!  He held his breath, and was
silent.  Even the general looked at him in surprise and suspicion.

"No," he answered hoarsely at last, "I do not deny it.  The man did lend
me money."

"For what purpose--eh?  In order to obtain from you in secret the plans
of the Tresenta fortress," declared His Excellency.  "French agents do
not lend money to Italian officers without some _quid pro quo_."

"I did not know that the fellow was a spy until afterwards."

"Until it was too late, I suppose.  You were entrapped, so you were
compelled to give the plans to France.  Now admit it."

"I assert that I am entirely innocent," he declared.  "It is true that I
spent my leave in Paris, where I met a man who called himself Georges
Latrobe, an engineer from Bordeaux, who spoke Italian I ran short of
cash, and he lent me five hundred francs, which I repaid to him ten days
after my return to barracks.  It was only on the last day when I was
with him that my suspicions were aroused regarding his real character.
We were sitting together in the Cafe Terminus, when he turned the
conversation to our defences on the Alpine frontier, expressing a desire
to visit me at Gran Paradiso.  I at once told him that the admission of
strangers within the military zone was prohibited.  But he pressed me,
and even went so far as to offer me a receipt for the money he had lent
me, together with a like sum if I could gain him admission, in order, so
he said, to see the latest feat of Italian engineering.  But my
suspicions were at once aroused.  I told him that his suggestion was
impossible, and from that day I have not seen him."

"But you furnished him with plans and details of the fortifications?"
snapped the Minister of War.

"I did not," denied the captain stoutly.  "I admit that I very narrowly
escaped falling into a clever trap, but fortunately saved myself.  If
the plans have actually been furnished, then they have been given by
someone else, not by me; and that letter was placed in my quarters in
order to divert suspicion from the guilty person."

"Ah, a very ingenious story!" the Minister laughed incredulously.  "You
admit being friendly with the spy?"

"I admit all that is the truth, your Excellency, but I flatly deny that
I am a traitor to my king," was the accused man's quick, response.

"But you see you were watched while on leave," the Minister went on,
referring to his report.  "On your return from Paris you travelled by
way of Milan to Bologna, where you visited a certain Signora Nodari and
her daughter."

"The latter was my betrothed," the unhappy man explained.

"Exactly.  Then how do you account for the agent Latrobe calling upon
her a month later and obtaining from her a packet which she had received
by post from the garrison of Gran Paradiso?  It was only afterwards that
this fact was known, otherwise the spy would not have escaped from
Italy."

Captain Solaro stood rigid.

"Have you really proof of this, your Excellency?" he demanded in a low,
hoarse voice.  "I--I cannot think that she would betray me."

"Ah!  Never trust a woman," observed the Minister, with a grim smile.
"She has made a statement--a statement which proves everything."

"Which proves?" he cried wildly.  "Which proves I am innocent."

"No," declared Morini calmly.  "Which proves that you are guilty."

"Ah, but let me tell you how--"

"No more!" cried Morini, rising with quick anger from his chair and
snapping his fingers in impatience.  "You have been found guilty and
sentenced, and I think that even your general, after your own
admissions, is now convinced of his injudicious and ridiculous attempt
to shield a traitor."

"Ah!" cried the unfortunate man, hot tears springing to his eyes, "I see
now how I have been betrayed--and I know by whom!"

"I have no further time to waste upon hearing any counter-charges,"
abruptly answered the Minister.  "From to-day you are dismissed the army
in disgrace.  My decree will appear in to-night's _Gazette_, and,
General Valentini," he added meaningly, turning to the stern old officer
who had writhed beneath the civilian's rebuke, "convey your prisoner
back to Turin, and do not again become the gaoler of a traitor."

"You absolutely refuse to hear me further, then!" cried the captain in
wild desperation, dismayed to find that all attempt to clear his
character had failed.

"I do."

The accused man with set teeth drew his sword, and with one quick wrench
across his knee broke the gleaming blade and cast it ringing upon the
marble floor.

"Take my sword!" he cried, drawing himself up to the salute.  "Take my
honour--take my life!  But you--even you, Camillo Morini--cannot condemn
me with justice!  One day you shall know that I am innocent--you hear!--
innocent!"

And with firm tread he strode out of the Minister's private room,
followed by his general, who merely saluted in stiff silence, his
scabbard trailing upon the marble.

CHAPTER NINE.

HIS EXCELLENCY LEARNS THE TRUTH.

The Minister of War was seated busily writing beneath the green-shaded
reading-lamp in the big library of the great old Antinori Palace, his
handsome residence in Rome.

Five years ago he had bought that enormous old place in the Via
Nazionale--a place full of historic interest--together with its old
furniture, its gallery of cinquecento paintings, and its corridor filled
with armour.  It was a high, square, ponderous place of princely
dimensions, with a great central courtyard where an old fountain plashed
on in the silence as it had done for three centuries or more, while
around the arched cloisters were the carved arms of the various families
through whose hands the place had passed in generations bygone.

The library was a high room on the first floor, with long cases filled
with parchment-covered books, many of them illuminated codices and rare
editions, a fine frescoed ceiling, and a great open hearth over which
was an ornamentation of carved marble of the Renaissance with a grinning
mascherino.  The floor was of marble, except that the littered
writing-table was set upon an oasis of thick Turkey carpet, giving to
the room an austere character of comfortless grandeur, like everything
else in that huge old palace of the days when every house of the Roman
nobility was a fortress.

An Italian Minister's life is not by any means an easy one, as Camillo
Morini had long ago discovered.  He was often in his private cabinet at
the Ministry of War at nine o'clock in the morning, and frequently sent
home by his private secretary urgent papers which he could examine and
initial after dinner, as he had done that day.  His wife and daughter
were up at the villa near Florence for the vintage, and he was alone and
undisturbed.  He had not even troubled to change for dinner, but was
still in the linen suit he had worn during the day, and had merely
exchanged his white coat for an easy black alpaca one.

As Minister of War, his salary was one thousand pounds sterling per
annum, an amount quite inadequate for his needs.  True, he travelled
free in his private saloon on the railway, but yet he had a most
uncomfortable time of it owing to the fact that he was expected by his
friends to repay them for services rendered with the gift of offices,
favours, introductions, and recommendations.  Wherever he went he was
besieged by a host of people who wanted favours, exemptions of their
sons from military service, increased stipend, or the redressing of some
act of official injustice or petty tyranny.

His wife, too, was pestered with "recommendations" to him; for without
recommendations nothing could be obtained.  If he went to inspect the
garrison of a provincial town, the prefect, the mayor, the head of the
_carabinieri_, and the most prominent citizens called on him every day;
while when in the country the wheezy village band played operatic airs
outside his window every evening, alternated with a chorus of children
from the elementary schools.

His sovereign, King Humbert, although good-natured and brave, was too
easy-going and lacking in moral stamina to make a really strong monarch,
hence the whole Cabinet, from the Prime Minister downwards, were guilty
of grave irregularities, if not of actual corruption.  The fault,
however, lay with the system, rather than with the men.  How could a
Cabinet Minister entertain lavishly and keep up appearances upon a mere
thousand pounds a year, when he had no private means?

Happily, the present hard-working, cultivated king, Victor Emmanuel the
Third, has mastered all the details of state business, and has swept his
Cabinet clean of those men who abused their position under his lamented
father, until the whole face of Italian politics has entirely changed
since the days when Camillo Morini held office as head of the army.

Under the late King Humbert, Ministers were often chosen, not because
they were capable statesmen, but simply because it was necessary that a
particular region should be represented in the Cabinet, so as not to
arouse local jealousies.  In any case, their tenure of office was too
precarious and too short to enable them to do much good work, and
whatever the Minister managed to do would probably be undone by his
successor.

Morini would have gone out of office half a dozen times had he not
succeeded, by judicious bribery, in obtaining protection from his
enemies.  Indeed, he only retained office by dint of his own ingenuity
and clever diplomacy towards those who were ever trying to hound him
down.  Not only did he bear the great responsibility of the army, but,
in common with other members of the Cabinet, the greater part of his
activity was absorbed in the manipulation of party groups in the Chamber
and in studying parliamentary exigencies.  He had to judiciously
subsidise certain newspapers in view of a general election, make use of
the secret service fund in certain quarters, and be careful not to
shower too many favours on one province; for if he offended any
particular town, the local deputy, hitherto a staunch ministerialist,
would turn and rend him.

Truly his position, head of an army costing sixteen millions annually,
and with a multitude of people bent on getting something out of him, was
the reverse of comfortable.  He would have resigned long ago had he
dared, but resignation or dismissal from office would, he knew only too
well, spell ruin to him.  So he was held there in an office of bribery
and dishonesty, which he had grown to regard with bitter hatred.  He had
served through three administrations, it was true, and was a trusted
servant of his king, yet the daily worry of it all, the ever-present
fear of exposure and of downfall, held him in constant apprehension of a
future ruin and obscurity.

The dead silence of the night was unbroken save by the scratching of his
quill as he scribbled his signature upon one after another of the pile
of various papers at his elbow.

He wrote mechanically, for he was reflecting upon that scene in his
cabinet when the captain of Cacciatori Alpini had broken his sword
across his knee.

"A clever fellow!" he murmured.  "He thought to bluff me, but he did not
know how closely I had had him watched.  If I did not know all that I
do, I really believe I should have thought him innocent.  A good actor.
I will send his broken sword as a present to that doddering old fool,
his general--as a souvenir of his visit to Rome without leave!" he
laughed to himself, still continuing to sign the commissions and
decrees.

Of a sudden there was a rap at the big white doors at the end of the
dimly lit room, and a gorgeously dressed man-servant in stockings and
gold-laced coat advanced to the table, saying--

"The Onorevole Ricci desires to see your Excellency."

"Pig's head!  Didn't I give orders that I was not at home?" he cried,
turning furiously upon the man.

"But your Excellency is always at home to the Signor Deputato?" the
servant reminded him, surprised at the sudden outburst of anger.

"Ah!" growled his master.  "Yes, you are right, Antonio!  I forgot that
I told you I was always at home to him.  I must see him, I suppose," he
sighed, and when the man had gone his brow contracted, his teeth
clenched; yet almost before he could recover his self-possession the
long white doors reopened, and his visitor--a short, dark-bearded,
middle-aged man in evening dress--was ushered in.

"Ah, my dear Camillo!" he cried enthusiastically, advancing towards the
Minister, who rose and took his hand.  "I only arrived in Rome this
afternoon, and heard you had returned from England.  Well, and how are
you after your holiday?  I suppose I may take a cigar?" he asked,
crossing to the cigar-box, opening it, and selecting one.

"The rest was welcome," answered the other calmly, stretching his arms
above his head and glancing furtively at the new-comer as though he held
him in some suspicion.  He was a pleasant-looking man, a trifle stout,
with a round, sun-bronzed face, as though fond of good living, while his
perfectly fitting dress-suit was cut in a style which showed it to be
the garment of a London tailor.  He possessed the careless, easy manner
of the gentleman, striking a match and lighting his cigar with a
familiarity which showed that he was no stranger to the Minister's roof.

"I too have been in the country for quite a long while," he said--"at
Asti.  I have to visit the electors now and then just to make them
promises and put them in a good-humour."

"Or they would hound you out, Vito--eh?--just as the Socialists would
throw me out if they could," laughed His Excellency drily, walking to
the cigar-box, selecting one, and lighting it.

"And Her Excellency and the signorina?" inquired the deputy.

"They are up at the villa.  They always go there for the vintage."

"Of course, Rome in September is only fit for us politicians and the
English tourists.  I wonder you are back so early."

"Duty, my dear Vito," replied the other.  "One day, when you are
Minister, you will find that you had much more leisure as advocate in
Turin and deputy for Asti."

"I suppose so," he laughed.  Then he added, "I met Angelo in the club an
hour ago.  He has also been in England, it seems.  I think I shall go to
England next summer--if you invite me."

"Which is not likely."

"Why?"

"Because when I am in England I like to be away from all my official
duties," frankly answered Morini.  "They don't even know who or what I
am--and I delight in keeping them in ignorance."

"Then why did you invite Angelo?  I am jealous, you see."

"Because I wished to consult him upon a confidential matter."

"Regarding an army contract tendered you by a German firm," replied the
other, carelessly blowing a cloud of smoke from his lips as he stood
with his back to the huge open grate.  "You may as well tell the truth,
my dear friend."

The Minister, starting, looked at him sharply, and asked--

"How did you know?"

"Never mind how I know, Camillo.  It is, as you see, useless for you to
try and deceive me.  You have given the contract to those Germans--for a
consideration.  But don't think that I blame you.  Why, I should do the
very same thing myself.  I get a little in my own small way out of
certain people in Asti, but not enough.  That's why I am compelled, so
much against my will, to come to you."

"Ah!" groaned the Minister, facing him quickly and determinedly.  "The
same old story--eh?  Money."

"Like air, it is a necessity of life," he replied, smiling.  "I have
been in want of it for a month past, but preferred to wait rather than
to trouble you while you were on holiday."

"But you surely get enough now!" protested His Excellency.  "I've
obtained a dozen different favours for you; I've given you appointments;
I've allowed you to make recommendations for military decorations in
Piedmont; I've allowed you to handle the secret service funds; and I've
done all I could so as to place you in a position to receive secret
commission.  But of course, if you fail to make use of your
opportunities, it is not my fault."

"Never fear.  I do not stir a finger without some consideration," he
laughed.  "You surely know me too well after all these years.  No; I
find that it is not sufficient.  Money I want, and money I must have.
Recollect what services I have rendered to you in the Camera, my dear
Camillo," he went on.  "You surely do not forget the dead set made
against you a year ago, and how I succeeded in uniting the various
groups and inducing them to pass a vote of confidence!  You never were
nearer downfall than you were that afternoon--except, perhaps, to-night.
You have enemies, my dear friend--enemies in the Socialist groups, who
declare that you have held office too long," he added.

"I know," exclaimed the other hoarsely.  "I know that," and he tossed
his cigar away with a quick, impatient gesture.

"While you've been abroad I have been active in secretly ascertaining
the real state of political opinion in the north, and much as I regret
to tell you, it is distinctly antagonistic.  Now that Milan is such a
strong Socialist centre the other large towns are following, and an
agitation is spreading against you.  They want a fresh man in office as
Minister of War--the man who is so cleverly scheming to replace you."

"To replace me!" exclaimed Morini.  "And who is this man, pray?"

The words which Vito Ricci had spoken sank like iron into his soul.  He
knew, alas! how very precarious was his office.

"The man is our friend Angelo," slowly replied the crafty deputy.
"Already in the north he is looked upon as your successor.  If the
groups in the Camera fall asunder, then your dismissal is imminent.  I
know this is a very unwelcome piece of news, my dear Camillo, but it is
a hard fact which I have come here to-night to reveal to you."

CHAPTER TEN.

"FOR MARY'S SAKE."

His Excellency's face fell.  He was silent for several moments.

The easy-going, well-dressed political adventurer before him was, he
knew, in the secrets of the strong party who were his opponents and who
were ever plotting his downfall.  He had, since his return to Rome,
heard rumours through certain quarters in which secret service money was
spent that an agitation had been set afoot by his antagonists, but he
had never dreamed that the prime mover of it all was the very man in
whom he had so implicitly trusted, one of the men who owed everything to
him--Angelo Borselli!  The revelation staggered him.  He really could
not believe it to be actually true.

"And so he intends to become Minister--eh?" remarked Morini bitterly,
when he at last found tongue.

"He is working for that end," replied Ricci.  "I was in Milan and Parma
a week ago, and on every hand I saw how cleverly he was stirring up
ill-feeling against you.  He is secretly allied to the Socialists--of
that I am certain."

"Because he sees that through them he can obtain office," replied His
Excellency, his pale face now very serious.  "You have done well to tell
me this, _caro mio_," he added.  "I shall know now how to deal with the
man who learns my secrets and then seeks to betray me."

"But your position is daily becoming one of graver peril," exclaimed the
wily advocate, placing his hand confidentially upon the Minister's arm.
"The agitation is widespread.  The Socialists intend that the Government
shall fall."

"But you will help me, Vito, as before?"  Morini urged quickly.  "Those
shrieking Socialist maniacs shall not gain the ascendency?" he declared,
clenching his hands and pacing the room quickly.

Vito Ricci, deputy for the town of Asti, shrugged his shoulders, but did
not reply.  In the Italian Camera every politician of any prominence had
a small body of adherents, and political ability consisted in so
manipulating a number of these bodies as to form a majority; therefore
for this purpose each Minister secretly bribed one or more of the most
unscrupulous deputies to juggle with the party.  A group might to-day be
on the side of the Government, and to-morrow with the Opposition.  There
were no real political principles at stake in the policy of these
groups, and the only important question was that of party management and
judicious bribery.

Vito Ricci was a professional politician, with whom politics was a
regular trade.  The Government granted him a free railway pass--as it
did all the other deputies at Montecitorio--and he made money wherever
he could.  His position enabled him to obtain many favours for himself
and his friends.  The system of recommendations and parliamentary
influence was one of the worst features of Italian political life, for
it was generally regarded as one of the deputy's chief duties that, for
a consideration, he should help his friends and constituents to procure
favours, promotions, decorations, and concessions of contracts which
would not be otherwise obtainable.  Political jobbery was regarded as
inevitable.

Indeed, Vito Ricci lived upon the bribes he received--and lived well.

"You are silent," remarked His Excellency, looking him straight in his
face.  "Why?"

"Because I have nothing to say."

"You don't promise to assist me!" he exclaimed.  "You don't declare your
readiness to unite the groups again in our favour!"

"Because I fear it would be a useless task," responded the other in a
calm, mechanical voice.

"A useless task!" gasped the elder man, whose face was blanched.  "What
do you mean?"

"I mean that matters have assumed an ugly appearance," replied the
deputy.  "Even the journals who have received so much money from you are
silent when they ought to be loudest in your eulogy.  They are evidently
awaiting the advent of their new masters."

"Then you actually anticipate a catastrophe?" exclaimed Morini hoarsely,
halting before the man who had rendered him so many valuable services--
the clever, unscrupulous adventurer who had several times turned the
parliamentary tide in his favour.

Vito nodded slowly, his bearded face grave and hard set.

"If what you say is really true regarding Angelo, then I am fully aware
of the great peril in which I stand," the Minister exclaimed at last,
his voice faltering in his agitation.  "Borselli will hesitate at
nothing in order to gain power."

"Ah, I told you so a year ago, my dear Camillo," was the deputy's reply.
"But you would not listen.  He was your friend, you said--as though
there was such a thing as friendship in any of the ministries."

"I have been deceived," admitted the other in a low voice.

A silence fell between the pair, until the deputy suddenly said
hesitatingly--

"I suppose Angelo could make some rather awkward revelations--eh?"

The Minister slowly nodded.

"H'm.  I thought as much from what I gathered in Milan.  He would
denounce you, and by reason of his big Socialist following he would come
out with clean hands.  He has laid his plans well, without a doubt.
Sirena, the Socialist deputy for Pesaro, told me, in confidence, all
that is intended."

"They mean to strike a blow at me?"

"Yes, by criticising the army, and by bringing forward some curious
story about the plans of the fortress of Tresenta in the Alps being sold
to France.  Do you know anything about it?"

"Yes.  The plans have unfortunately been given to France by a captain
named Solaro, who has been dismissed the army and sent to prison.  So
they intend to make political capital out of that, do they?"

"It seems so," was the other's answer.

Morini slowly repaced the room, his chin upon his breast, deep in
thought, the dead silence being broken only by his footsteps upon the
marble floor.

"Borselli has formed a plot against me--a deep, dastardly plot!" he
exclaimed in a desperate tone, halting again suddenly, a determined look
upon his grey features.  "He intends that I shall fall.  But you, Vito,
can save me, if you will--you know you can.  With a little of this," and
he rubbed his thumb and forefinger together, "you can unite the groups
as you did before, and show the country that the Minister of War still
possesses the confidence of the kingdom."

"I doubt it," answered Ricci dubiously.

"But you will not desert me now?" implored His Excellency, laying his
hand firmly upon the deputy's shoulder.  "Recollect the past, Vito.
Remember the day when you, a lieutenant, prevented my horse throwing me
at the manoeuvres in the Chianti.  That was long ago, but both of us
have had cause to congratulate ourselves upon that meeting."

Ricci nodded.  He recollected well how the Minister, then only a few
months in office, had allowed him to resign from the army and complete
his studies as an advocate, and how, by a clever stroke of political
jobbery, he had been elected deputy for Asti, in order that he should
serve the Minister as his secret agent in the Camera.  He had become
rich in a few years, owing to the various grants and concessions His
Excellency had made to him, yet somehow his personal extravagance kept
him always poor, always in want of money.  He feared to calculate how
much of the secret service funds had already found its way into his
pocket, and yet with wily ingenuity he was there again for a grant, not
from the secret service fund--for he knew well that the sum voted for
the present year was already exhausted--but from Camillo Morini's own
private purse.

Vito Ricci, with all the outward appearance of a gentleman, was utterly
unscrupulous.  He worked in the Camera for the master who paid him
best--a fact which Morini knew too well.  If the Socialists were
prepared to pay his price, then the man whom he had trained so cleverly
and promoted to place and power would calmly throw him over, and hound
him down with just as great an enthusiasm as he now supported him.

"I suppose," he went on at last, "it is, as usual, a matter of price
with you--eh, Vito?"

"Well, I must live, just as you must," responded the other with a faint
smile as he discerned how terrified the Minister had become at the
information he had just given him.  "I have no private income, and
therefore must make money somehow."

"You have made plenty of it," the other remarked.  "Only three months
ago you had fifty thousand lire out of the secret service fund."

"And I am now badly in want of an exactly similar amount," the deputy
declared.

"Ah! so that is the price--eh?  Fifty thousand?"

"Yes.  But of course I cannot guarantee success for that sum.  It may
cost more.  I have to bribe the leaders of each of the groups in the
Chamber, and I flatter myself that I am the only man who can work them
in favour of the Ministry."

"I admit that, my dear Vito.  You are a marvel of tact and cunning.
What a pity you did not enter the Diplomatic service!  But the price.
It is too high.  I can't really afford to pay so much.  Ah! if you knew
how heavy my personal expenses are, and how--"

"Of course," the other cried, interrupting.  "You made the same excuse
last time, but you paid these screaming hounds all the same.  It is
surely useless to waste breath upon argument.  The facts are quite
plain, as I've already told you.  If you pay for triumph you will
probably receive it; if you don't, you must fall, and Angelo Borselli
will be given your portfolio.  Pardon me for saying it, Camillo, but of
late you have lived with your eyes shut.  I have watched, and I have
observed certain things.  Recently you have held me aloof from you, just
at a moment when I could be of greatest service.  This, I confess, has
hurt me.  I believed you reposed confidence in me, but it seems that you
mistrust me."

"I mistrust all blackmailers," was the Minister's quick reply, his dark
eyes flashing at the speaker.

"Because you are one yourself," the other retorted quickly, with a grin.
"You yourself taught me the gentle art of blackmailing.  But no! do not
let us revile each other.  Rather let us face the critical situation.  I
tell you that you are blind--otherwise you would realise how cleverly
and with what devilish ingenuity your power is being undermined.  You
must bribe the groups--you must pay the sum I ask.  It is your duty, not
only for your own sake, but for that of your family--the signora and the
Signorina Mary."

The Minister of War stood undecided.  Mention of his family brought home
to him the terrible responsibility upon him.  Ruin, exposure,
condemnation, disgrace, all stared him in the face.  Yet by paying what
his creature demanded he could once again steer clear of the shoals of
the stormy parliamentary waters, and the country would have renewed
confidence in Camillo Morini.

He knew that he was--as indeed he had been for years--entirely at the
mercy of this man whom he had trained as his secret agent both in the
Camera and out of it.

"Well," he answered at last in a deep, hoarse, broken voice, "and
suppose I pay?  What then?"

"Then I shall do my best," was Vito's response.  "I can't, of course, be
certain that I shall succeed, but as the groups require my influence in
another quarter, they will probably render me assistance in this."

Morini was pacing the room again.  His appearance was that of a man
filled with apprehension.  He saw that the situation was most critical,
and recognised that ruin was before him.  He glanced across at his
writing-table, when his lips compressed and a strange, half-triumphant
smile overspread his grey countenance.

"Very well," he exclaimed, and his sigh ran through the great old
chamber.  "I suppose you must have the money to throw to those howling
dogs.  Call at the Ministry to-morrow and you shall have a draft."

"For sixty thousand," said the deputy quickly.  "Better be on the safe
side.  I shall have to distribute money freely this time, you know."

But the Minister refused, knowing that the extra ten thousand lire would
go into Vito's pocket.  Then they argued, long and hotly, Ricci, the
accomplished blackmailer, refusing openly to lend his influence for any
less sum, until at length the man who was so completely in his power was
reluctantly compelled to yield--for the sake of his wife and Mary, he
said in sheer desperation.

"And now that you are again reposing confidence in me, my dear friend,"
said the deputy, "let me give you a word of warning."

"Speak.  I am all attention."

"Last season there was here in Rome a man named Dubard.  You introduced
us one night when I dined here.  I have since heard that he is aspiring
to your daughter's hand."

"Well?"

"Watch him, and you will discover something that will surprise you.  I
shall say no more.  The future is in your own hands."

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

THE SECRET AGENT.

A fat waiter conducted a well-dressed, lady-like girl up the great
marble staircase of the Hotel Brun, in Bologna, rapped lightly at the
door of a private sitting-room, and ushered her in.

Angelo Borselli, who rose to meet her, bowed politely, with a smile on
his sallow face, and welcomed his visitor.

She was about twenty-three, with very dark hair, fine big eyes, and a
well-formed figure, rather stout, as are most of the Bolognese.

"I had given you up, signorina," he said.  "I have waited for you over
an hour."

"I could not get away before," she replied somewhat timidly.  "At home
they seemed suspicious, and I had the greatest difficulty in coming
here."  And she smiled, a faint flush suffusing her sunburnt cheeks.

"You came in a closed cab?"

"No, I went to the station and drove here in the hotel omnibus, as
though I had arrived by train.  I thought it would excite less
suspicion."

"Excellent!" laughed the Under-Secretary, glancing to see that the door
was closed.  "You are clever--always clever, Filomena.  You will make a
first-class agent of the Ministry some day," he added approvingly.

She laughed as she seated herself in the chair he politely offered, and
laid the little fan she carried upon the table, replying--

"I always do my best.  But my mother watches so closely that I have to
be most cautious."

"You have done exceedingly well," declared the schemer.  "In this last
affair you have rendered me the greatest assistance.  Without you we
should have failed.  But I have invited you here to learn all the
details.  I was in Paris at the time, and all I have gathered is from
the official reports of the court-martial.  They did not call you up to
Turin, I hope?"

"No.  They took my evidence in secret at the barracks here."

"And what did you tell them?"

"I described exactly what had happened.  How the captain had a year ago
declared his love for me, and how he came to Bologna from Paris."

"And what else?"

"I described how I had received in confidence the mysterious packet from
him, with instructions to hand it to a friend of his, a Frenchman, who
would make an appointment to meet me.  What I told the three officers
who took down my statement seemed to create a great impression upon
them."

"Of course it would, because it is your statement that has condemned
Solaro."

"Condemned!" she gasped in blank surprise.  "What, has he already been
tried?"

"Yes, and dismissed the army."

"But he is--"

"There are no buts, signorina," he quickly interrupted in a hard voice.
"If you render secret service to the Ministry you must never reason as
to the why or the wherefore.  Always rest assured that we are acting
solely for the benefit and safety of Italy."

She thought deeply for a moment.

"When I met the Frenchman by appointment at a seat in the Montagnola
garden, and gave him the packet, he broke it open, and I saw that some
tracings were inside."

"And what did the Frenchman say?" inquired Borselli.  "Oh, he was very
polite," she laughed, blushing slightly.  "We walked about the garden
for nearly half an hour; for he was a pleasant man, who spoke Italian
exceedingly well--evidently an officer."

"Most of the men in the French secret service are recruited from the
army or the detective police," he remarked.  "But I intend that Italy,
like Russia, shall in future rely upon the shrewdness of clever women
like yourself.  This Frenchman said nothing regarding Solaro?"

"He merely remarked that he supposed the captain trusted me implicitly,
and I, of course, replied in the affirmative.  He wrote to me from the
Hotel National in Lucerne, making the appointment in the Montagnola,
indicating a certain seat, which showed that he was well acquainted with
Bologna."

"Did he mention me?"

"No.  He urged me, however, to deny all knowledge of the mysterious
packet if taxed with receiving it.  From that I concluded that he was in
ignorance of how the whole affair had been arranged."

"Of course," he answered, with a laugh.  "It would never do for France
to learn our motives.  We allow them to have the secrets of Tresenta
because we have other ends in view.  What they are you will know later."

"And in the meantime Felice Solaro is dismissed the army in disgrace?"

The sallow-faced man nodded.  He did not tell her that he had been
sentenced to fifteen years' imprisonment, for he knew how soft-hearted
women are towards the innocent.

"Do you know," she said presently, "I have a suspicion which I think I
ought to tell you.  It is that the address upon the envelope which
contained the packet of papers was not in Captain Solaro's own
handwriting."

He looked quickly into her face, frowning slightly and saying--

"Suspicions do not concern you, signorina.  When I give you orders, it
is for you first to execute them as secretly and expeditiously as
possible, and secondly to have a care that your association with me is
never discovered.  You understand?  I am merely Filipo Florena, shipping
agent, of Genoa, and you write to me always to my office in the Via
Balbi.  Should you ever be in real peril, you have that code address by
which a telegram will find me, either at home or abroad."

She saw that her remark caused him annoyance, therefore she began to
apologise and declare her readiness to serve the War Department of her
country in every way possible.

"As I have already said," he remarked in a quiet voice, obtaining her
permission to smoke, "you have shown yourself in every way adapted to
the responsible office I intend that you shall hold.  You come of good
family, although at present in straitened circumstances; you possess
good looks, and you are a perfect model of all the virtues.  Your
mother, the widow of my old friend, Colonel Nodari, would, of course,
object to the capacity in which you have once or twice served Italy.
Yet it is for the honour and safety of your country, recollect.  You are
an agent of the Ministry of War, and being in its employ should act
obediently, without expressing any surprise at the information you are
asked to obtain, or attempting to deduct any logical conclusion."

She sat silent, listening to the advice the schemer gave her.  Her late
father, a colonel of cavalry, had been the Under-Secretary's friend, and
the latter had been a frequent guest at their house.  Indeed, she had
known General Borselli ever since she had been a child, and of late, by
clever ruses, this man had contrived to use her quick woman's
intelligence for his own ends.  In recognition of her services, he had
sent her small sums of money, which she found very useful for her dress
bills, and on one or two occasions had sent her little trinkets, which
she had locked up carefully from her mother's prying eyes.

The Under-Secretary for War, far-seeing and deeply scheming always,
recognised in her a very valuable assistant.  She was known to the
officers of a dozen garrisons, for she had been reared in the military
atmosphere, therefore she was enabled to discover for him facts about
persons that it would otherwise have been impossible for the Ministry to
obtain.

A dozen times had she been successful in elucidating various sources of
discontent, and gaining other information of greatest value to the War
Office in Rome, information which Borselli used for his own ends and
with the purpose of undermining the power of the Minister Camillo
Morini.  As the dead colonel's daughter, and very popular on account of
her bright disposition and good looks, she was the last person suspected
of collecting that information which so mysteriously found its way to
headquarters.  And yet, under Borselli's secret tuition, she had become
as clever and ingenious an agent as any the Government employed.

Truth to tell, however, the part she had played in the Solaro affair,
now that she realised how the unfortunate captain had been entrapped,
caused her a deep pang of conscience.  Several months before, in that
very room, she had met the Under-Secretary by appointment, and he had,
after some preliminaries, remarked upon her acquaintance with Captain
Solaro, whereupon she blushingly explained that they had known each
other for some years, ever since her father was in garrison on the
frontier at Ventimiglia.  He put some direct questions to her, and
discovered that, although they corresponded frequently, she was in no
way in love with him.  Then he gave her instructions how to act,
declaring that the captain was strongly suspected of secret dealing with
a French agent, and that if she received a sealed packet by post from
the Alpine garrison she was to hold it, and deal with it exactly in the
manner which the captain ordered, but in the meantime she was also to
communicate with the supposed shipping agent in the Via Balbi in Genoa--
himself.  In brief, she was to appear very friendly with the captain,
inspire him with every confidence, and yet betray him into the hands of
the authorities.  To her, the suggestion was a very unwelcome one, but
Borselli urged her to carry out the delicate negotiation from patriotic
motives--as daughter of a brave soldier who had served Italy so
faithfully and well in the struggles of the sixties.  It was this
claptrap appeal to her loyalty that had caused her to become a secret
agent of the Under-Secretary, which had now resulted, she knew, in the
disgrace of an innocent man.

Why had the trap been baited so cunningly? she wondered within herself.
There was some hidden motive in the expulsion of Solaro from the army;
what could it be?  Surely that packet she had given the polite Frenchman
had not really contained plans, for it was not likely that the War
Office would actually connive at its own betrayal to France?

"I know that this recent little affair in the north has puzzled you,
signorina," the general remarked slowly, his eyes fixed upon her.  "But
you will see that we have right on our side one day.  Act with care,
exercise a wise discretion always, and you will not only be able to
assist us, but you will, in future, receive a secret payment from the
Ministry of seven thousand lire per annum, together with a fair
allowance for expenses.  The first payment has already been made to you
in recognition of your tact towards Solaro," he added, and taking from
his wallet a slip of paper, he handed it to her, adding, "This is a
draft on the Bank of Italy for the amount.  Leave it in the bank if you
wish--you will probably find it useful one day.  You see it is upon the
private account of Filipo Florena."

She, wondering, held the draft between her fingers.  It was the first
she had ever seen, and she told him so.

"Put it away in your writing-desk or your jewel-case.  And when you want
it you can cash it on sight at any branch of the Bank of Italy--or,
indeed, at any moneychanger's."

She folded it carefully, and slowly placed it in her purse, while he,
glancing at her furtively and seeing that possession of such a sum had
given her confidence, suddenly exclaimed--

"And now let me tell you the real reason why I am here."

CHAPTER TWELVE.

CONCERNS SOME CURIOUS INSTRUCTIONS.

"Well?" she asked, as he paused and looked at her.  "Why are you in
Bologna?"

"I am here," he answered, "for the purpose of sending you to England."

"To England!" she echoed, half rising from her chair.

"Yes.  You speak English quite well, therefore I have obtained for you a
situation as governess in a highly respectable and wealthy family," he
said.  "You remember you asked me a year ago to arrange that you might
leave home and become your own mistress, for you told me you were tired
of living on your mother's narrow means."

"But I--"

"As I have already said, signorina," he interrupted, "there are no buts
where the safety of Italy is concerned.  You are wanted to go to England
for two reasons: the change will be beneficial to you, and you will
render a service to the Ministry."

"Then I am to accept the post with an ulterior object in view?" she
remarked quickly.

"Of course," he replied, with a smile.  "There are certain matters of
which we desire information, and it lies with you to supply it.  You are
well educated, a good linguist, and just the stamp of young lady who
goes as governess in a wealthy family.  Therefore, the post being
vacant, I at once secured it for you by giving you a very strong
recommendation."

"I would rather remain in Italy," the girl implored, recognising almost
for the first time how entirely she was in that man's hands.

"No," he declared.  "They expect you in England next week.  The young
lady, your pupil, is to begin her studies at once--while you will
commence to study other matters on our behalf," he added, his dark face
relaxing into a meaning grin.

She was silent, twisting her handkerchief nervously in her gloved hand.
She realised that so cleverly during the past three years had this man
weaved a net about her she was now bound to obey him.  But she had never
dreamed that the services she rendered to the Ministry of War were to
take her abroad--to England.

There, in Bologna, her status as the daughter of a colonel who had
served with distinction and had died a commendatore gave her the
_entree_ into what was a select circle of society for a provincial town,
but strange perhaps to English ideas--a society composed mostly of needy
counts and seedy countesses, marquises who lived in bare, half-furnished
palaces upon the remnant of what past generations of gamblers and
spendthrifts had left them, and government employees, together with the
officers of the garrison.  It was a degrading thing that she should go
out as a governess, yet if it were really necessary, she must, she knew,
bow to the inevitable.

At first she resisted his request, urging that it was impossible.  She
had only made the suggestion as a joke; she was ready to serve the
Ministry of War at home in her own small way, but to go abroad, to
become a secret agent of Italy in England, was quite another matter.

He smoked on in silence, standing at the window and pretending to be
interested in the people passing in the street below.

"My dear signorina," he exclaimed at last, turning his thin,
unprepossessing face to her, and looking straight at her with his dark,
crafty eyes, "I quite admit that to leave your home and friends is not a
pleasant outlook.  But you see it is imperative--absolutely imperative.
You can render us most valuable assistance.  Indeed, we are relying
entirely upon you."

"My mother will never consent to it," she assured him.

"Leave the signora to me," he laughed drily.  "She will believe that you
have become companion to an English lady.  I will arrange it all.  You
know what entire confidence the signora has in me!"

Filomena smiled.  This man, who held such a high office in the Ministry,
had always been a friend of her family.  Indeed, the colonel's widow was
greatly indebted to him, for, through him, the War Office now paid her a
small sum annually in recognition of her late husband's services to the
kingdom, a payment which was not legal, but which had been ordered by
Borselli and made law by decree of the Minister Morini himself.

"You will have a very pleasant time of it in England, I assure you," he
went on.  "As governess you will, of course, be treated as an underling,
but remain patient, watchful, and attentive always to your instructions.
Remember that upon you depends much, that you may render greater
service to Italy than even her ambassadors.  Knowledge is power, is an
old and trite saying--and knowledge is in no place more powerful than
the Ministry of War."

He treated her with a certain fatherly solicitude and confidence which
impressed her.  Four years ago, when she left the convent school at
Ravenna and resumed the acquaintance formed in her childhood, he had
gradually taken her into his confidence.  He required certain
information regarding certain officers in the Bologna garrison which
with her woman's subtle way of learning secrets she could obtain, while
on his part he was ready to further her interests, to obtain that very
necessary income for her mother--to act, in fact, as her friend, and to
place her, in secret, under the protection of the Ministry of War.  But
secrecy was to be observed--secrecy in everything.  To him alone was she
to report, by letter or verbally.  She was to act the spy on his behalf
with cunning, care, and caution.

In the various tasks he had set her she had acquitted herself well, more
especially in the mysterious affair of Captain Solaro, the man who, to
his cost, had fallen in love with her.  At heart she hated herself for
the despicable part she had been compelled to play, yet she had become
Borselli's spy in order that she and her mother should receive that
small but very necessary pension from the War Department.

In character she was one of those silent, watchful women whom nothing
escapes, and who note every look and every gesture--one of the few
women, indeed, who can keep a secret.  Borselli, the man who used the
Minister Morini as his cat's-paw, and was as cunning an adventurer as
there was in all the length of Italy, had recognised these qualities as
those of a secret agent of the most successful type, and therefore had
resolved to turn to account his ascendency over her.

She had taken up her little fan and was fanning herself with quick
nervousness.  The evening was a stifling one in September, for in that
month Bologna, with its long streets of stucco porticos, is a veritable
oven.

"The address of your new mistress is here," remarked the
Under-Secretary, producing a card from his pocket-book, whereon was
written in pencil in an English hand: "Mrs Charles Fitzroy, 186, Brook
Street, Grosvenor Square, W."

"It is in the best and most fashionable part of London," he added.  "And
they have a fine place out in the country.  The child whom you are to
teach is aged eight--a little friend of mine.  So you see I have
arranged it all for you.  You have only to go there and commence your
duties."

She shrugged her shoulders.  The idea of taking a situation as governess
did not appeal to her.  She would, indeed, have refused point-blank if
she dared, only refusal might mean the cessation of her mother's slender
income.

She knew Angelo Borselli's wife and son, and had visited them in Rome.
The Signora Borselli was a stout woman of rather coarse type, proud of
her position, fond of crude colours and a dazzling show.  Her carriage
in Rome was painted a bright grass green, and the livery of her servants
was a blue-grey with yellow cockades.  She dressed expensively, but
without taste, as might be expected of one who was daughter of a straw
hat manufacturer at Sancasciano.  The son was aged eighteen, a superb
young cub, who was now at the University of Ferrara studying law.
Filomena Nodari was of gentle birth, and therefore despised the woman
who had treated her so patronisingly.  She looked upon Angelo Borselli
as her dead father's most devoted friend and her mother's benefactor,
but the wife of the Under-Secretary she held in disdain as an uncouth
countrywoman aspiring to a great position--as indeed she really was.

"England is a long way off, signore," she remarked in a blank voice,
after a long pause, the silence being unbroken save for the strains of
the military band playing outside in the piazzi, as it does every
evening in summer.  "Cannot you send someone else?" she begged.

"There is no one so well adapted as yourself," he declared.  "You know
English and French, and could act the part of governess to perfection.
I admit that to accept a menial office is not really pleasant, yet you
must recollect that as a servant of the Ministry you are acting your
part for the benefit of Italy--just as your poor father so valiantly
acted his part through all his life."

She sighed, and lapsed again into thought.  Like a thousand other girls
living at home upon slender means, she had often longed for a change of
life and for sight of those foreign places about which she had read so
much--and most of all of London.  And here, he pointed out, was an
opportunity of serving Italy abroad.

She believed all that he told her--how the information she furnished was
necessary for the successful conduct of the Ministry in order to thwart
the machinations of Italy's enemies.  She had no idea that her actions
and inquiries, directed by him, were always with one end in view--to
oust from office the Minister himself.

On the one hand, Filomena Nodari was extremely clever and far-seeing, a
veritable genius in the discovery of secrets, while on the other she was
as wax in the hands of this man whom for so many years she had regarded
as her friend.

"Am I to write to this person, my employer?" she asked with a slight
sigh, still holding the card in her hand.

"Only to announce the day and hour of your arrival in London--at the
station of Charing Cross, remember.  I told Mrs Fitzroy who and what
you are--that you are tired of sleepy Bologna, that you were an
officer's daughter, and all the rest of it.  Your wages are seven
hundred francs a year, or twenty-four pounds in English money, with your
railway fare paid to London, and your return fare if you don't suit.
But," he added, with a meaning laugh, "you will suit, signorina--you
must suit, recollect?"

She shrugged her shoulders dubiously, saying--

"Of course, if it is really necessary, I will go.  But I fear I may
fail."

"Not if you are determined to succeed," he assured her.  "You have good
looks, and they go such a very long way.  That is why a pretty woman is
so successful as a secret agent."

She flushed slightly at his flattery.

"Well, and what am I to do?  What information do you require?" she
asked, speaking almost mechanically and gazing fixedly across the room.

"The facts, simply told, are these," he said, tossing his cigarette into
the ash-tray and halting before her.  "This Mrs Fitzroy is the wife of
a Mr Charles Fitzroy, a London fur merchant, and Alderman of the City,
and sister to a man named Morgan-Mason, a member of the English House of
Commons.  This man you must watch.  Recollect his name.  Although he is
a bachelor and lives in an apartment in Westminster, he spends much of
his time at his sister's house; hence you will have an opportunity of
forming his acquaintance and keeping observation upon his movements.  He
is clever, crafty, and quite unscrupulous, therefore be cautious in all
your movements.  You must try and seize an opportunity to get a glimpse
through his private papers if possible, and see if there are any
documents in Italian of an unusual character."

"Then you suspect him to be an enemy of Italy?" she remarked seriously.

"We suspect that this blatant, pompous orator, who is now gathering such
a following in the House of Commons, is forming certain plans to
undermine our strength, to turn English opinion against an Italian
alliance.  Therefore it is necessary that we should be in possession of
all the details, and you alone can obtain knowledge of the truth.  He
does not know Italian, a fact which gives you distinct advantage.  Watch
him very carefully, and report each week to Genoa; while, on my part, if
I have any important instructions to send, I shall address the letter to
the Poste Restante at Charing Cross--which is opposite the railway
station.  Your aim must be to find out all you can; to discover with
whom this man is in association in Italy, remembering that whatever
secret information, or more especially any documentary evidence you can
secure, will be of the utmost service to us.  Go, my dear signorina," he
added, placing his hand upon her shoulder, "go to London, and carry with
you my very best wishes for success."

The woman sat silent, thinking over his instructions, while through the
open window on the evening air came the strains of military music.

And as he watched her his thin, sallow face slowly relaxed into a
sinister smile, when he reflected within himself the real reason why he
was sending the pretty spy to England.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

THE VILLA SAN DONATO.

The sky was aflame in all the crimson glory of the Tuscan sunset.

The Angelus of a sudden clashed forth from the high castellated tower of
the village church away over the Arno, winding deep in its beautiful
fertile valley, that veritable paradise of green vale and purple
mountain, and was echoed by a dozen other bells clanging discordantly
from the hillsides, while from afar came up the deep-toned note of the
big bell in the campanile of brown old Florence.

It was the hour of the _venti-tre_, and those patient toilers, the
_contadini_, in the vineyards, who had been busy since dawn plucking the
rich red grapes that hung everywhere in such luscious profusion, crossed
themselves with a murmured prayer to the Madonna, and prodded their
ox-teams homeward with the last load for the presses.  All day long
"babbo," with his wife and children of all ages, had worked on beneath
that fiery sun, singing as they laboured; for the grape harvest was a
rich one, the wine would be abundant, and they, sharing half the profits
with the padrone in lieu of payment, would receive a good round sum.

Like most of the great estates in Tuscany, that of San Donato, the
property of His Excellency Camillo Morini, was held by the peasantry on
what is known as the _messeria_ system, by which the whole of the land
was divided into a number of fields, or _poderi_, half the produce of
which was retained by the _mezzadro_, or peasant who cultivated the
soil, and the other half went to the landlord as rent.  The _poderi_
varied in size, but were usually about thirty acres in extent, each with
its _contadino's_ house colour-washed in pale pink, and upon the wall,
painted in distemper, a heraldic shield bearing the bull's head erased
argent, the arms of the proprietor.

The estate of San Donato, with its huge old fourteenth-century villa--a
great castellated place with high, square towers, that would in England
be called a castle, on the crest of a hill--and its _fattoria_, or
residence of the bailiff, another great rambling place with its oil
mills and wine-presses, in the valley below, was one of the largest in
Tuscany.

The villa, with its long facade of many windows, its flanking towers,
its enormous salons of the cinquecento, its splendid frescoes, its
antique marbles, its grey old terraces and broken statuary, was indeed
in a delightful situation.  Perched on the summit of a lofty and broken
eminence, it looked down upon the vale of the Arno and commanded
Florence with all its domes, towers, and palaces, the villas that
encircle it and the roads that lead to it.  The recesses, swells, and
breaks of the hill on which it stood were covered with groves of pines,
ilex, and cypress.  Behind, deep below, lay quiet old Pistoja in the
distance, and still farther off swelled the giant Apennines.

From the villa ran a broad open road, straight to the ancient gate of
the little walled village of San Donato itself--a remote, ancient place,
almost the same to-day as when in the days of Dante it guarded the
valley against the incursions of the Pisans.  From its high brown walls,
now crumbling to decay, the view was, like that from the villa of its
lord, without rival in all Italy.  Its tiny piazza was grass-grown, and
outside the walls, in a shady cypress grove, stood a ruined calvary with
some of Gerino's wonderful frescoes.

San Donato, though only seven miles from Florence as the crow flies, was
an un-get-at-able place, inaccessible to the crowd of inquisitive
English, and therefore unchanged and its people unspoilt.  Indeed, in
winter a week often went by without communication with the world below;
for the post did not reach there, and the little place was
self-supporting.  The people, descendants of the men who had shot their
arrows from those narrow slits in the walls, were proud that they had
the great Minister of War for their lord, and that the estate was not
like that adjoining, going to decay through the neglect and gambling
propensities of its owner, who had not visited it for twenty years!  On
the contrary, San Donato, still almost feudal, was prosperous under a
generous padrone, and the few weeks each year which the Minister and his
family spent there was always a time of rejoicing with the whole
countryside.  Then the _contadini_ made excuse for many festas, and
there was much dancing, playing of mandolines, and chanting of
_siomelli_.  The padrone delighted to see his people happy, and the
signorina was always so good to the poor and the afflicted.

Out upon the great wide stone terrace that ran the whole length of the
villa, where spread such a wonderful panorama of river and mountain,
Mary was standing beneath an arbour of trailing vines; for even though
the _venti-tre_ was ringing, the sun's rays were still too strong to
stand in them bareheaded.  She presented a slim, neat figure,
delightfully cool in her plain white washing gown with a bow of pale
blue tulle at the throat, yet, as her face was turned towards the
far-distant heights of Vallombrosa, there was in her handsome
countenance a look of deep anxiety.

Jules Dubard, leaning against the grey old wall at her side, noticed it
and wondered.  He too was dressed all in white, in a suit of linen so
necessary in the blazing Tuscan summer, and as he folded his arms he
smiled within himself at the effect of his words upon her.

"But you don't really anticipate that my father's enemies are plotting
his downfall?" she asked seriously turning her great dark eyes upon him.

"Unfortunately, I fear they are," was his reply.  "What I heard in Paris
is sufficient to show that here, in Italy, you are on the eve of some
grave political crisis."

"For what reason?" she inquired earnestly.  "Tell me all you know, for
your information may be of the greatest use to my father.  I will write
to him to-night," she added, in a voice full of apprehension.

"No.  Do not write," he urged.  "You will see him in a week or ten days,
and then you can tell him the rumours I have heard.  It seems," he went
on, "that there is a group of Socialists fiercely antagonistic to the
Government, and that they have formed a most ingenious conspiracy to
secure its downfall.  Other men, rivals of the present Ministry, are
eager for office and for the pecuniary advantages to be thereby
obtained."

"What is the character of the conspiracy?" she inquired seriously.
"Perhaps my father can thwart it."

"It is to be hoped that he can, but I confess I doubt it very much," was
his slow answer.  "Downfall seems imminent.  Indeed, a friend of mine,
whom I met the other day in Biffi's cafe, in Milan, was discussing it
openly.  It seems that our French secret service has been at work on
your Alpine frontier, and that the plans of the new fortress at Tresenta
have been sold by one of the officers of the garrison.  Out of this the
Opposition intend to make capital, by charging your father with neglect,
even connivance at the traitorous dealings with France, and thereby
hounding him from office."

"But it is unjust!" cried the girl wildly.  "It is disgraceful!  If the
spies of France have been successful, it is surely not my father's
fault, but the fault of the officer who prepared and sold them.  What is
his name?"

"I hear it is Solaro."

"Solaro!" she gasped hoarsely.  "Not Captain Felice Solaro, of the
Alpine Regiment?"

"Yes, signorina, that was the name."

She stood staring at him, utterly amazed and mystified.  Felice
Solaro!--a traitor!

"But it is impossible!" she declared quickly.  "There must surely be
some mistake!"

"I heard it on the very best authority," was the young Frenchman's calm
answer.  "A court-martial has, it seems, been held with closed doors,
and as a result the man Solaro has been dismissed and sentenced to
imprisonment for a term of fifteen years."

"Dismissed the army!" she exclaimed blankly.  "Then the court-martial
found him guilty?"

"Certainly.  But did you know the man?"

She hesitated a moment, then faltered--

"Yes, I knew him once.  But what you tell me seems utterly impossible.
He was the very last man to betray Italy."

"They say that a woman induced him to prepare the plans," remarked the
Frenchman.  "But how far that is true I have no idea."

Mary's face was paler than before.  Her brows were contracted, and in
her dark, luminous eyes was a look of quick determination.

"Is my father aware of all this?" she demanded.

"Undoubtedly.  He, of course, must have signed the decree dismissing
Solaro from the army.  I believe the matter is being kept as quiet as
possible, but unfortunately the Socialists have somehow obtained
knowledge of the true facts, and will go to the country with the cry
that Italy, under the present Cabinet, is in danger."  Then, after a
slight pause, he went on, "I look upon your father as my friend, you
know, signorina, therefore I think he ought to know the plot being
formed against him.  They intend to make certain distinct charges
against him, of bribery, of receiving money from contractors who have
supplied inferior goods, and of being directly responsible for the
recent reverses in Abyssinia.  If they do--" Pausing, he elevated his
shoulders without concluding the sentence.

"But it is impossible, Count Dubard, that the man you name could have
sold our military secrets?"

"You know him sufficiently well, then, to be aware of his loyalty?"
sniffed her companion suspiciously.

"I know that he would never be guilty of an act of treason," she
answered quickly.  "Therefore if he really has been convicted of such an
offence, he must be the victim himself of some conspiracy."

The count regarded her heated declaration as the involuntary
demonstration of a bond of friendship, and looked into her eyes in
undisguised wonder.  She stood facing him, her white hand upon the
broken marble of an ancient vase, yellow and worn smooth by time.

"You appear to repose the utmost confidence in him," he remarked,
surprised.  "Why?"

"Because I am certain that he has fallen the victim of a plot," she
declared, her face hard set and desperate.  "If those enemies of my
father's are endeavouring so cleverly to oust him from office, is it not
quite feasible that they have laid the blame purposely upon Captain
Solaro?"

"Why purposely?"

She paused, and again his eyes met hers.

"Because they knew that if Captain Solaro were accused," she said
slowly, "my father, as Minister, would show him no clemency."

"Why?"

"There is a reason," she responded hoarsely, adding, "I know that he is
innocent--he _must_ be innocent."

"But he has been tried by a competent court-martial, and found guilty,"
remarked her companion.

"With closed doors?"

"And is not that the usual procedure in cases of grave offence?  It
would never do for the public to learn that the loyalty of Italy's
officers had been found wanting.  That would shake the confidence of the
country."

"And yet my father's enemies are preparing to strike a crushing blow at
him by making capital out of it?" she exclaimed.  "Ah yes.  I see--I see
it all!" she cried.  "It is a vile, despicable conspiracy which has sent
to prison in disgrace an innocent man--a second case of Dreyfus!"

The Frenchman shrugged his shoulders but made no reply.

"You said that a woman's name had been mentioned in connection with the
affair," she went on.  "Was her name Nodari--Filomena Nodari--and does
she not live in Bologna?"

Her companion's lips pressed themselves together, but so slightly that
she did not notice the almost imperceptible expression of annoyance upon
his face.

"I do not know," he declared.  "I merely heard that there was a woman in
the case, and that she had given certain evidence before the military
court that left no doubt of the guilt of the accused.  But," he added,
half apologetically, "I had no idea, signorina, that Solaro was a friend
of yours."

"Oh, he is not a friend, only an acquaintance," she protested.

"Then why are you so intensely interested in his welfare?" he inquired.

"Because I have certain reasons.  An injustice has been done, and I
shall at once ask my father to have the most searching inquiry made.  He
will do so, if it is my wish," she added confidently.

"Then you intend to champion the cause of the man who is accused of
being a traitor to Italy?" remarked the wily Parisian, regarding her
furtively as he spoke.  "I fear, signorina, if you adopt any such course
you will only place in the hands of your father's enemies a further
weapon against him.  No; if you desire to assist His Excellency at this
very critical moment, you must refrain from taking any action which they
could construe into your own desire, or your father's intention, to
liberate the man who is convicted of having sold his country to its
enemy."

"But it is unjust!  He is innocent."

"Be that how it may, your duty surely is to help your father, not to act
in a manner which would convince the public that he had connived at the
sale of the military secrets of Tresenta."

Her dark eyes fixed themselves upon the distant towers and cupolas of
Florence, down where the grey mists were now rising.  They were filled
with tears, and her chest beneath her laces heaved slowly and then fell
again.

And the man lounging at her side with studied grace laughed within
himself, triumphant at his own clever diplomacy.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

IN THE SILENCE OF NIGHT.

Dinner at the Villa San Donato was always a stately meal, served in that
huge, lofty _sala di pranzo_, or dining-room, with its marble floor, its
high prison-like windows closely barred with iron, its antique frescoed
walls, and old low settees covered with dark green damask running right
round the apartment.

In that enormous echoing room nothing had been touched for two hundred
years.  The old oak furniture had been well-preserved, the great
high-backed chairs, covered with leather and studded with big brass
nails, the fine carved buffet, and the graven shield over the door
bearing the arms of the princely house that had once owned the place,
all spoke of a brilliant magnificence of days bygone when those huge
halls had echoed to the tread of armed men, and the lord of San Donato
entertained his retainers and bravoes with princely generosity.  The
villa was so huge that the guest easily lost himself in its
ramifications, its long corridors and huge salons each leading from one
to the other.  Like all the fortified villas of the cinquecento, every
window on the ground floor was closely barred, and this, combined with
the bareness of the rooms, gave to them an aspect of austerity.  Over
the whole place was a comfortless air, like that of most Italian houses,
save in Madame Morini's rose boudoir, and the little sitting-room which
Mary had arranged in English style, and called her own.

In the great dining-room there was sitting accommodation for two
hundred, and yet on that evening the party only numbered six: Her
Excellency, Mary, Jules Dubard, an English schoolfellow of Mary's named
Violet Walters, the fair-haired daughter of an eminent KC, and two
sisters, named Anna and Eva Fry, daughters of an English merchant at
Genoa whom Her Excellency had invited up for the vintage.

The voices of the little party echoed strangely in that enormous old
apartment, and from time to time a peal of laughter came back from the
corners of the place with weird and startling repetition.  The party had
that day made an excursion over to another estate which the Minister
possessed above the Arno, at Empoli, where the vintage was in full
swing.  The trip had been delightful, and the peasantry had received
them with that deep homage and generous hospitality which the Tuscan
_contadini_ extend to their lord.

All were in good spirits except Mary, who, in a gown of pale carnation
pink, sat conversing mechanically in English with her friend Violet, a
pretty girl, about a year her senior, but within herself reflecting
deeply upon what the man sitting opposite her had told her when out upon
the terrace an hour before.

Her father was in peril; it was her duty to warn him.  Felice Solaro had
fallen a victim of some dastardly plot, but for what reason and how was
an utter mystery.

She longed to explain to her father all that the count had told her, but
in reply to a question, her mother had said that she did not expect him
to leave Rome for at least a fortnight.  Therefore she remained
thoughtful, apprehensive, and undecided how to act.  At first she had
contemplated explaining everything to her mother, but on reflection she
saw that there were certain reasons why her anxiety should not be
aroused.  Her Excellency was in very delicate health, and while in
London had consulted a physician, who had told her that she must have as
little mental worry as possible.  For that reason Mary resolved to hide
the serious truth from her.

Dubard, with his studied elegance of manner, was entertaining the ladies
with droll stories, for he was something of a humourist, and essentially
a ladies' man.  Once or twice as Mary's eyes met his he saw in them an
expression of deep anxiety, and of course knew well the reason.

The Fry girls were particularly interested in the young Frenchman, of
whom they had heard as a new star in the social firmament in Rome during
the previous season, but, being provincials, they had not met him.  Both
were dark and fairly good-looking; Eva aged about twenty-one, and Anna
two years her senior.  Their father, Henry Fry, was an exporter of
marble and of olive oil, who, like his father before him, carried on
business in Genoa, and had amassed a considerable fortune; but Mrs
Fry's death three years previously had left the girls to shift for
themselves in the social world, and their mother having long been an
intimate friend of Her Excellency, the latter each year invited the
girls up to San Donato as company for Mary.

Dinner ended at last, and the little party passed through the three
great salons lit by the thousand wax candles in their antique sconces,
into the minor drawing-room beyond, which was always used of an evening
because it was cosier and small enough to be carpeted.

The Fry girls were clever mandolinists, and taking up their instruments
at Madame Morini's invitation, played and sang that sweet old Tuscan
serenade--

  "Io ti amero finche le Rondinelle
  Avranno fatto il nido dell' amore;
  Io ti amero fin che nel Cielo stelle
  Vi saran sempre a illuminarmi il cora.
          Io ti amero,
          Io ti amero,
  Fin che avro vita
  Mio bel tesor!"

As they sang, Dubard stood beside Mary and looked into her dark eyes for
some responding glance.

But there was none.  She was not thinking of him, but of that
unfortunate man convicted of treason, disgraced and languishing in
gaol--and of Filomena Nodari, the woman who had foully betrayed him.

"You are sad to-night," he managed to whisper to her as they turned
together from the singers.

She nodded, but no response escaped her lips.

Her feelings towards Jules Dubard were mixed ones.  She found him a very
pleasant and entertaining companion, always courteous, elegant of
manner, and excessively polite--the kind of man who at once attracted a
woman.  And yet somehow, when she came to calmly analyse her regard for
him, she found it to be based merely upon his attractive personality;
or, in other words, it was little more than a mere flirtation, which may
be forgiven of every woman who is courted and flattered as she was.

True, he had, in a kind of joking manner, more than once declared his
love for her.  But she had always affected to treat his words as empty
and meaningless, and to assume that they were good friends and nothing
more.  At heart, however, she knew that both her parents would be
pleased to see her marry this man; for not only would she be the wife of
a wealthy landowner, but would also obtain the ancient and honoured
title of Comtesse Dubard.

Sometimes, in the secrecy of her room, she sat and reflected upon the
whole situation, but on each occasion she arrived at the same distinct
and unalterable conclusion.  She admired Jules; she was fond of his
society, and he was, even though his Gallic elegance of manner was a
trifle forced, nevertheless a perfect gentleman.  But surely there was a
great breach between admiration and actual affection.

What he had told her out on the terrace in the sundown, however, showed
plainly that he was really her father's friend.  And yet, strangely
enough, he did not wish her to alarm her father unduly.  Why? she
wondered.  If that grave peril actually existed he should surely be
forewarned!

"What I told you this evening has, I fear, upset you, signorina," Dubard
said in a low, sympathetic voice.  "But do not be disquieted.  I will
assist your father in thwarting this conspiracy against him.  Do not
tell Her Excellency a word.  It would be harmful for her, you know."

"I shall say nothing," was her reply.  "But," she added, "I cannot help
feeling anxious, especially as you suggest that I shall not write to my
father and warn him."

"Oh, write if you wish," he exclaimed quickly.  "Only recollect all that
I have told you is only hearsay.  Therefore, I think it unwise to arouse
your father's apprehensions if the rumour of the conspiracy is baseless.
No?" he went on.  "Remain patient, and leave everything to me."

She sighed, without replying; then, in order to reassure her, he
whispered, at the same time looking into her eyes intensely--

"You know, Mary, that I will do my very best--for your sake.  You know
me sufficiently well for that."

He would have continued his protestations of affection had not the
singers at that moment ceased, and they were both compelled to rejoin
the little group, much to Mary's relief, for at that moment she had no
thought beyond her father's peril.  She did not exactly mistrust the
count, yet some strange intuition told her that his solicitude for her
father's safety was feigned.  What made her think so she knew not, but
she experienced that evening a strange, unaccountable presage of evil.

He asked her to sing, and then, being pressed by the others, she
responded, chanting one of those old _stornelli_ of the countryfolk
which she was so fond of collecting and writing in a book, the weird
love-chants that have been handed down from the Middle Ages.  It was one
she had taken down from the lips of a _contadino_ at Castellina a few
days previously--

  "Giovanottino dal cappel di paglia,
  Non ti voglio amar piu, non n'ho piu voglia...
  Voglio piuttosto vincer la battaglia!"

And while she sang, Violet Walters, standing with Dubard, looked at him
with an expression which told him that he had created a favourable
impression upon her.  Thus the evening passed quietly, until the bell
over the private chapel of the castle tolled eleven, and the guests rose
and parted to their rooms, being conducted through the long ghostly
corridors by the domestics with candles.

Mary allowed her Italian maid Teresa to brush her long brown tresses
before the mirror, as was her habit, but the faithful servant remarked
in surprise upon the signorina's preoccupied look.

"I'm very tired, that's all," Mary replied, and as quickly as possible
dismissed the girl and locked her door.

Her room she had furnished in English style with furniture she had
chosen in London.  It was a delightful little place, bright with clean
chintzes and a carpet of pastel blue.  Upon the toilet-table was a
handsome set of silver-mounted bottles and brushes, a birthday gift from
her devoted father, and around the bed, suspended like a canopy from the
ceiling, were the long white mosquito curtains.

For a long time she sat before the glass in her pale blue dressing-gown,
her pointed chin sunk upon her breast in thought.  Ruin was before her
father--and if so, it meant ruin for them all!

Should she disregard the count's suggestion and write to him, urging him
to come from Rome and see her; or if not, to allow her to travel alone
to Rome?  Should she write in secret?

How long she remained pondering, she had no idea.  Twice the clock
struck solemnly over the deep dark valley that spread beneath her
window, until presently, with her mind made up, she rose and crossed to
her little writing-table on the opposite side of the apartment, but was
dismayed to find the stationery rack empty of notepaper.

If she wrote, it was necessary to do so at once in order to give the
letter to Teresa when she came with the coffee in the morning, for the
young peasant who took the postbag each day left at eight in the
morning, so as to catch the midday mail from Pistoja.  There was paper
in the library at the farther end of the mansion, therefore she resolved
to go and obtain some.

Wrapping a white shawl about her shoulders, she took her candle, and
opening her door noiselessly, crept down the long marble corridor past
her mother's door, and then, turning at right angles, proceeded to the
door at the end which gave entrance to the splendid book-lined room full
of priceless editions.

As she crept along in her little felt-soled slippers she suddenly
halted, fancying that she heard an unusual noise.  The peasantry
entertained an absurd belief that at night supernatural noises were
heard in the place, but of course she did not believe in them.  In fact,
she believed that the story had been invented by the agent, and
circulated among the superstitious folk in order to give the house
better protection against thieves.

She listened intently, her ears strained to catch every sound.

Yes, someone was moving in the library!

Her first thought was of burglars, but holding her breath and determined
to first make certain before raising the alarm, she advanced cautiously
to the door, placed her candle upon the floor, and peered through the
keyhole.

She was not mistaken.

A light shone within.  The great green door of her father's safe stood
open before her, revealing the nest of iron drawers within, while
someone was moving at the writing-table a little distance away, beyond
her range of vision.

Her heart beat quickly as her eye was glued to the keyhole.

The thieves, whoever they were, had opened the safe with a key and were
calmly rifling it!

She heard a noise as of crisp papers being turned over slowly, and then
a few seconds later a dark figure crossed to the safe and took a further
packet from one of the drawers.

As the man turned towards her his face became revealed in the dim light.
Sight of it staggered her.

The man who had opened the safe, and who was methodically examining her
father's confidential papers in secret, was none other than Jules
Dubard!

CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

THE PERIL OF A NATION.

The revelation of the truth that Jules Dubard was making a methodical
examination of her father's private papers held Mary spellbound.

From where she bent her eye at the big old-fashioned keyhole, she saw
that the ponderous steel door had been opened by a key, for it was still
in the shining lock.  Within that safe her father kept a number of
important state papers relating to the army, and quantities of
correspondence had, from time to time, been brought up from Rome by
official secretaries and he had placed them there for safety.

Once, while she had been helping him to arrange a quantity of technical
documents and tie them in bundles with pink tape, he had remarked--

"These are safer here than in Rome, my dear.  There are thousands who
long to get sight of them, but they would never think of looking here."

But there had been a still further curious incident, one which she
recalled vividly at that moment as she watched the man intently
examining the documents by the light of his candle.  It had happened
back in April, when some matters connected with the estate called His
Excellency from Rome, and he had brought Mary with him up to San Donato,
where they had remained only two days.  The country was delightful in
the bright springtime, and Mary had desired to remain longer, but it was
impossible, for her father's official duties took him back to the
Eternal City--and besides, to live in the country in spring is not
considered fashionable.

On the second night, while they were at the villa, he being alone, she
sat with him in the library after dinner watching him rearrange a series
of papers in the safe.  It was eleven o'clock when he concluded and
locked the great green door, then, carrying the key in his hand, he
crossed to where she sat, and said in a calm, earnest voice--

"Mary, I know that you will keep a secret if I reveal one to you, won't
you?"

"Most certainly, father," was her answer, not without some surprise.

"Then put on your cloak and a shawl around your head, my dear.  I want
to take you out."

Her curiosity was increased, for although it was moonlight it was late
to walk in the country.  Nevertheless she obeyed, and together they
passed down the steep, narrow bypath through the dark pine woods, deeper
and deeper, until before them in the silence the Arno spread shimmering
in the moonbeams.

At the river's edge His Excellency suddenly halted, saying--

"Mary, I wish you to bear witness to my action, so that if you are ever
questioned you may be able to tell the truth.  Recollect that to-night
is the ninth of April--is it not?"

"Yes; why?" she inquired, more puzzled than ever.

"Because I have decided that that safe in the library shall never again
be reopened while I live.  See!  Here is the key!" and he gave it into
her hand, urging her to examine it, which she did under the bright
moonbeams.

Then he took it from her hand, and with a sudden movement tossed it as
far as he could towards the centre of the deep stream, where it fell
with a splash.

He sighed, as though a great weight had been lifted from his mind, and
as they turned to re-ascend the hill he said with a grim laugh--

"If anyone wishes to open it now, he'll have a good deal of difficulty,
I think."

That was all.  She had never questioned him further.  She had been
witness of the wilful concealment of the key, but the reason she knew
not.  There were state secrets, she supposed, and she always regarded
them as mysterious and inexplicable.

Yet the safe had been reopened--if not by the actual key flung into the
river, then by a copy.

But what motive had Dubard in coming there on a visit during the
Minister's absence, and making careful examination of the documents
which had been so zealously hidden?

Out on the terrace that evening Dubard had, by giving her that warning,
shown himself to be her father's friend.  Yet surely this secret prying
was no act of friendship?

And this was the man who had courted and flattered her--the man whom
more than once she had believed that she could love!

Her heart beat quickly, for she scarce dared to breathe, lest she should
betray her presence.  The silence was unbroken save that within the room
was the rustle of papers as the man carefully glanced over folio after
folio.

The writing-table stood a little to the left, beyond the range of her
sight, therefore he was for a long time invisible to her.  Yet in the
dead silence she could distinctly hear the scratching of a pen, as
though he were making some extracts or memoranda.  He had evidently lit
the lamp upon the table, for his candle still stood on the floor before
the open safe.

As she listened she heard him laugh lightly to himself, a harsh, low,
mocking laugh, which echoed through the big old room, and then he rose
and carried back the bundle of documents carefully retied, and placed
them in their drawer, afterwards taking out another, and looking at the
docket upon it.

From the latter he saw it was of no interest to him, therefore he tossed
it back, as he did a second and a third.  He seemed to be searching for
something he could not find, and his failure caused him considerable
chagrin.

His actions held her utterly dumbfounded.  Although she had been
attracted by his personality and his courtesy, she had, with that
curious intuition which women possess, regarded him with some vague
distrust.  What she now discovered made it plain that she had not been
mistaken.  Her father had welcomed him to his house, had entertained
him, and had regarded him as a man of sterling worth, notwithstanding
his Parisian elegance of manner and foppishness of attire.

In their family circle her father had, indeed, more than once expressed
admiration of the count's high qualities, which showed how completely
the man had insinuated himself into the Minister's confidence.  But the
truth was now revealed, and he was unmasked.

Her natural indignation that he, a comparative stranger, should seek to
inquire into her father's most carefully guarded private affairs,
prompted her to burst in upon him and demand the reason of his
duplicity; but as she watched, she recognised that the most judicious
course would be to remain silent, and to describe to her father all that
she had witnessed.

Therefore she remained motionless with strained eyes, set teeth, and
quickly beating heart, gazing upon the man who had accepted her mother's
hospitality only to make an examination of her father's secrets.

An hour passed.  The deep-toned clock struck the hour of four, followed
by the far-distant bell of Florence.  She was cramped, chilled, and in
darkness, for she had extinguished her light in order that he should not
be attracted by it shining beneath the door.

Presently, however, she saw from his dark, heavy countenance, lit by the
uncertain light of the candle, that he was deeply disappointed.  He had
searched, but had evidently failed to find what he expected.  Therefore
he commenced busily to rearrange the packets in the steel drawers, just
as he had found them, preparatory to relocking the safe and retiring to
his room.

She recognised that he had concluded his search--for that night, at any
rate--for there still remained four or five drawers full of papers
unexamined.  Servants rise early in Italy, and he feared, perhaps, that
he might be discovered.  The remaining papers he reserved for the
following night.

She watched him close the safe door and place the key in his pocket,
then she rose, caught up her candle, and sped along the corridors back
to her own room.

She relit her candle, and as she did so caught the reflection of her own
face in the long mirror, and was startled to see how ghastly pale it
was.

The discovery amazed her.  She realised that the man who courted her so
assiduously and who flattered her so constantly was in search of
something which he believed to be in her father's possession.  How he
had recovered that key which had been thrown deep into the Arno at that
lonely reach of the river beneath the tall cypresses, was an utter
mystery.

Should she go to her mother and tell her of all she had seen?  Her first
impulse was to reveal everything, and seek her mother's counsel; yet on
reflection she deemed it wiser to tell her father all she knew.  The
natural impulse of a daughter was, of course, to take her mother into
her confidence, but one fact alone prevented this--only a few days
previously her mother had been so loud in praise of the count, in order,
it seemed, to recommend him to her daughter.  Madame Morini was, with
her husband, equally eager to see a formal engagement between the pair,
and was surprised and disappointed to notice the cold, imperturbable
manner in which Mary always treated him.  Mary had realised this long
ago, and for that reason now hesitated to tell her mother the truth.

Next morning, while she was puzzling over what excuse she could make to
go to Rome, her mother came to her with an open letter in her hand,
saying that her father had been called to Naples to be present at an
official reception of King Humbert by that city, and would not return to
the Ministry for three days.  This news caused Mary's heart to sink
within her, for she saw the uselessness of going to Rome until he
returned.

That day she avoided Dubard, making an excuse that she had a headache,
and spending most of the time alone in her little boudoir.  The
Frenchman took the other girls for an excursion through the woods, and
during his absence she entered the great old library and carefully
examined the lock of the safe.

It showed no sign of having been tampered with, having evidently been
opened with its proper key--or an exact copy of it.  The waste-paper
basket was empty, the maid having taken it away that morning; but the
blotting-pad caught her eye, and she held it before the long old empire
mirror and tried to read the impressions of the words he had copied.
But in vain.  One or two disjointed words in French she made out, but
they told her absolutely nothing.  He had evidently made memoranda of
the documents in French, or else the documents themselves had been
written in French.

She knew, by his actions on the previous night, that he intended to
return and conclude his investigations, and a sudden idea occurred to
her to thwart his plans.  The real object of his search he had
apparently not discovered, therefore it was her duty to prevent him from
obtaining it, and yet at the same time remain secret and appear to
possess no knowledge of his attempt.  She reflected for some time how
best to accomplish this, when at last a mode essentially feminine
suggested itself--one which she hoped would be effective.

Again she crossed to that huge green-painted safe let into the wall,
which contained her father's secrets--and many of the military secrets
of the kingdom of Italy--and taking a hairpin from her tightly bound
tresses--always the most handy feminine object--she broke off a piece of
the wire about an inch long, which she carefully inserted in the
keyhole, poking it well in by means of the other portion of the pin
until she heard it fall with a click into the delicate mechanism of the
lock.

Then, smiling to herself, she withdrew, knowing that whatever attempt
Dubard now made to reopen that door would be without avail.  There was
nothing to show that anyone had interfered with the mechanism, therefore
he would be entirely unsuspecting, and would attribute the non-working
to some defect in the lock itself, or in the key.

That night she sat next him at dinner, bearing herself as bravely bright
and vivacious as ever, and determined that his suspicions should not be
aroused; while he, on his part, thought her more charming than ever.

The evening passed as usual in the small drawing-room with music and
gossip, and later, after all had retired and one o'clock had struck,
Mary crept out in the darkness to the library, where, sure enough, she
saw, on peering through the keyhole, the man who was so cleverly
courting her actively trying to open the safe door.

The key would only half turn, and in French he muttered some low words
of chagrin and despair.  He tried and tried, and tried again, but all to
no purpose.  He withdrew the key, blew into the barrel, examined it in
the light, and then tried once more.

But the lock had become jammed, and neither by force nor by light
manoeuvring could he turn the key sufficiently to shoot back the huge
shining bolts that held the door on every side.

Mary's effort had been successful.  By that tiny piece of wire her
father's secrets were held in safety.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

FATHER AND DAUGHTER.

"My dear child, you really must have been dreaming, walking in your
sleep!" declared Camillo Morini, looking at his daughter and laughing
forcedly.

"I was not, father!" she declared very seriously.  "I saw the man take
out those bundles of papers I helped you to tie up."

"But the key!  There was only one made, and you know where it is.  You
saw me do away with it."

"He has a duplicate."

The Minister of War shook his head dubiously.  What his daughter had
told him about Jules Dubard was utterly inconceivable.  He could not
believe her.  Truth to tell, he half believed that she had invented the
story as an excuse against her engagement to him.  Though so clever and
far-seeing as a politician he was often unsuspicious of his enemies.
Good-nature was his fault.  He believed ill of nobody, and more
especially of a man like Dubard, who had already shown himself a friend
in several ways, and had rendered him a number of important services.

"And you say that you put a piece of your hairpin in the lock, and that
prevented him reopening it on the second night?"

"Yes.  Had it not been for that he would have made a complete
examination of everything," she said.  "If he had done so, would he have
discovered much of importance?"

His Excellency hesitated, and his grey brows contracted.

"Yes, Mary," he answered, after a brief pause.  "He would.  There are
secrets there--secrets which if revealed might imperil the safety of
Italy."

"And they are in your keeping?"

"They are in my keeping as Minister of War."

"And some of them affect you--personally?  Tell me the truth," she
urged, her gloved hand laid upon the edge of the table.

"They affect me both as Minister and as a loyal subject of His Majesty,"
was His Excellency's response, his face growing a trifle paler.

If the truths contained within that safe really leaked out, the result,
he knew, would be irretrievable ruin.  Even the contemplation of such a
catastrophe caused him to hold his breath.

"Then I assure you, father, that nearly half the documents within have
been carefully and methodically examined by this man who poses as your
friend."

"And to tell you the truth, dear, I cannot credit it.  He can have no
key that would open the door, unless he recovered it from the Arno--
which is not likely.  They never dredge that part, for it is too deep.
Besides, that portion of the river is my own property, and before it
could be dredged they would have to give me notice."

"But a duplicate--could he not possess one?"

"Impossible.  That safe was specially manufactured in London for me, and
is one of the strongest ever constructed.  I had it made specially of
treble strength which will resist any drill or wedge--even dynamite
would only break the lock and leave the bolts shot.  The only manner it
could be forced without the key would be to place it in a furnace or
apply electrical heat, which would cause the steel to give.  The makers
specially designed it so that no second key could ever be fitted."

"Then you disbelieve me?" she said, looking into her father's face.

"No, I don't actually disbelieve you, my dear," he responded, placing
his hand tenderly upon hers; "only the whole affair seems so absolutely
incredible."

"Everything is credible in the present situation," she said, and then
went on to relate what Dubard had told her regarding the conspiracy of
the Socialists, who intended to hound the Ministry from office.

She was seated in her father's private cabinet at the Ministry of War,
in the large leather-covered chair opposite his big littered table, the
chair in which sat so many high officials day after day discussing the
military matters of the Italian nation.  The double doors were closed,
as they always were, against eavesdroppers.

She had, at her own request, managed to have a telegram sent her by him,
and with Teresa had arrived in Rome only an hour ago.  She had driven
straight to the Ministry, and on her arrival Morini had quickly
dismissed the general commanding in Sicily, to whom at that moment he
was giving audience.

The story his daughter had related seemed utterly incredible.  He knew
from Ricci of the deep plot against him, but that the safe should really
have been opened, and by Dubard of all men, staggered belief.  That was
why, in his astonishment, he declared that she must have been dreaming.

But in a few moments he became convinced, by her manner, that it was no
dream, but an actual fact.  Dubard, who had shown himself a friend, had
actually pried into what was hidden from all.  Why?

What had he discovered?  That was the question.

Mary told him of the memoranda, and of the impressions upon the
blotting-pad, whereupon he exclaimed quickly--

"I'll send someone up to San Donato to-night to bring the blotting-pad
here.  Granati, the handwriting expert, shall examine it."  Then after a
brief pause, he bent towards her, saying, "You do not believe that he
really discovered what he was in search of?"

"No; he seemed disappointed."

His Excellency heaved a sigh of relief.  If Jules Dubard really had
opened the safe, then he feared too well the reason--the motive of the
search was plain enough to him.

His teeth set themselves hard, his face blanched at thought of it; and
he brushed the scanty grey hair from his forehead with his hand.

And yet it seemed impossible--utterly impossible--that the safe could
really have been opened and its contents examined.

"I can't understand Count Dubard's reason for accepting our hospitality
and then acting as a thief during your absence, father," the girl
remarked, looking him full in the face.  "I've told mother nothing, as I
preferred to come straight to you.  That is why I asked you to call me
here by telegraph."

"Quite right, my dear; quite right," he said.  "It would upset your
mother unnecessarily."

"But there is another matter about which I want to talk," she said,
after some hesitation; "something that the count has told me in
confidence."

"Oh!  What's that?" he asked quickly.

"It concerns yourself, father.  He says that there is a deep political
plot against you--to secure the downfall of the Cabinet and to bring
certain unfounded charges against you personally."

Her father smiled quite calmly.

"That news, my dear, is scarcely fresh," he replied.  "For twenty-five
years my political enemies have been seeking to oust me from every
office I've ever held.  Therefore that they should be doing so now is
only natural."

"I know!  I know!" she said, with earnest apprehension.  "But he says
that the plot is so formed that its result will reflect upon you
personally," and then she went on to describe exactly what Dubard had
told her.

His Excellency, nervously toying with the quill, listened, and as he did
so reflected upon what Ricci had already told him.

How was it, he wondered, that the Frenchman, who was outside the inner
ring of Italian politics, knew all this?  He must have some secret
source of knowledge.  That was plain.

Morini looked into his daughter's great brown eyes, and read the deep
anxiety there.  Within his own heart he was full of apprehension for the
future lest the Socialists might defeat the Government; yet, with the
tact of the old political hand, he betrayed no concern before her.  What
she told him, however, revealed certain things that he had not hitherto
suspected, and rendered the outlook far blacker than he had before
regarded it.

"The count has also told me that there is a charge of treason against
Captain Solaro."

Instantly her father's face changed.

"Well?" he snapped.

"The captain is innocent," she declared.  "He must be.  He would never
betray the military secrets of his country."

"That is a matter which does not concern you, Mary," he exclaimed
quickly.  "He has been tried by court-martial and been dismissed the
army."

"But you surely will not allow an innocent man to suffer, father!" she
urged in a voice of quick reproach.

"It is not a matter that concerns either of us, my dear," he answered in
a hard tone.  "He has been found guilty--that is sufficient."

She was silent, for suddenly she recollected what the count had said,
namely, that any effort on her part to prove poor Solaro's innocence
must reflect upon her father, whose enemies would use the fact to prove
that Italy had been betrayed with the connivance of the Minister of War.

She sighed.  She had suspicions--grave ones; but she knew that at least
Felice Solaro had been made the scapegoat of some cunning plot, and that
his sentence was unjust.  Yet what could she do in such circumstances?
She was powerless.  She could only remain patient and wait--wait,
perhaps, for the final blow to fall upon her father and her house!  A
silence fell, broken only by the low ticking of the marble clock and the
measured tramp of the sentry down in the sun-baked courtyard.

Her father sighed, rose from his chair, and with his hands behind his
back paced anxiously up and down the room.

"Mary!" he exclaimed suddenly, in a changed voice, hoarsely in earnest,
"if the secrets hidden in that safe have actually fallen into the hands
of my enemies, then I must resign from office?"  His face was now
blanched to the lips, for all his self-possession seemed to have
deserted him in an instant as the ghastly truth became revealed.  "I
know--I know too well--how cleverly the conspiracy has been formed, but
I never dreamed that that safe could be opened, and the truth known.
No," he said in a low voice of despair, his chin sunk upon his breast;
"it would be better to resign, and fly from Italy."

His daughter looked at him in silence and surprise.  She had never seen
him plunged in such despair.  A bond of sympathy had always existed
between father and daughter ever since her infancy.

"Then you dare not face your enemies if they are actually in possession
of what is contained in the safe?" she said slowly, rising and placing
her hand tenderly upon her father's shoulder.  She realised for the
first time that her father, the man whom she had trusted so implicitly
since her childhood, held some guilty secret.

"No, my dear, I dare not," was his reply, placing his trembling hand
upon her arm.

"But you are unaware of how much knowledge Count Dubard has obtained,"
she pointed out.

"Sufficient in any case to cause my ruin," replied the grey-haired
Minister of War.  "That is, of course, if he is not after all my
friend."

"But he is your friend, father," she was compelled to exclaim, in order
to give him courage, for she had never in her life seen him so overcome.

"Those midnight investigations are, as you have said, a curious way of
demonstrating friendship," he remarked blankly.  "No," he added in a
dry, hard tone.  "To-day is the beginning of the end.  These are my last
days of office, Mary.  The vote may be taken in the Chamber any day, and
then--" and his eyes wandered involuntarily to that drawer in his
writing-table wherein reposed his revolver, which, alas! more than once
of late he had handled so fondly.

"And after that--what?" his daughter asked anxiously.

But only a deep sigh ran through the lofty room, and then she realised
that her father's kindly eyes were filled with tears.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

THE SAZARAC AFFAIR.

The great gilded ballroom of the French Embassy in Rome was thronged by
a brilliant crowd, even though it was out of the season and the majority
of the official and diplomatic world were still absent from the Eternal
City, in the mountains or at the baths.

The bright uniforms, the glittering stars and coloured ribbons worn by
the men, and the magnificent toilettes of the women, combined to form a
perfect phantasmagoria of colour beneath the huge crystal electroliers.

The orchestra was playing a waltz, and many of the guests were dancing;
for the floor at the Farnese Palace was the best in Rome.  Camillo
Morini, though in no mood for gaiety and obliged to attend, was
wandering aimlessly through the rooms, exchanging salutes with the men
he knew and now and then bowing low over a woman's hand.  In his
brilliant uniform as Minister of War, with the cerise and white ribbon
of the Order of the Crown of Italy and a number of minor decorations, he
presented a strikingly handsome figure, tall, erect, and
distinguished-looking, as he strode through the huge painted salons
dazzling with their heavy gilt mirrors and giant palms, a man of power
in that complex nation, modern Italy.

After Mary had sought him and revealed the amazing fact of Dubard's
secret investigations, she had gone on home to the palace with her maid
Teresa, where he had joined her about six o'clock.

Father and daughter had dined alone in the long, high, old frescoed
room.  Few words they exchanged, for both felt that a crisis was
imminent, and that if the blow fell the catastrophe must be overwhelming
and complete.  A true bond of deepest sympathy had always existed
between them, for, as an only child, he had lavished upon her all his
affection, while she, in turn, regarded him with a strong affection
unusual in these decadent days.  More than once since she had returned
from the Broadstairs school she had been his assistant and adviser in
the hours when she had found him alone and agitated as he so often was.
More than once, indeed, he had confided in her, telling her of affairs
which he withheld even from his wife for fear of unduly disturbing her
in her delicate state of health.  Often he had, of his own accord,
sought his daughter's counsel.  Hence she was in possession of many
confidential facts concerning persons and politics in Rome, and with her
woman's keen perception had already in consequence become a trained
diplomat.

In the long and painful silence during dinner he urged her to accompany
him to the French Ambassador's reception, adding with a sigh, "I would
rather remain at home with you, my dear; but I must go.  It will not do
for me to betray any sign of fear."

"Go, certainly.  It is your duty, father.  But I am really too tired
after my journey."

And so she excused herself from accompanying him, and went off early to
her room.

His Excellency had been chatting with the Prince Demidoff, the Russian
Ambassador, and was passing into the great ballroom, where the gaiety
was then at its height, when he came face to face with Angelo Borselli,
gorgeous in his brilliant general's uniform.

"Ah, my dear Camillo!" exclaimed the latter.  "I only returned from
Paris to-day, and called upon you on my way here.  I must see you at
once--privately."

The Minister, who had not met the Under-Secretary since the adventurer
Ricci had revealed to him the truth regarding the Socialist conspiracy,
controlled his feelings with marvellous calmness, and greeted his friend
effusively.

"Why?" asked His Excellency under his breath.  "Has anything happened?"

"A good deal.  But here the very walls have ears," was the answer.  "I
have come in search of you."

"Well?" asked the Minister of War in abrupt surprise, recollecting the
warning Ricci had already given him.

"Come with me.  I know my way about this place," Borselli said.  "There
is an anteroom at the end of the south corridor where we can talk
without risk of eavesdroppers."

Their host, Baron Riboulet, the French Ambassador, a tall, handsome,
brown-bearded man, stopped and greeted the pair at that moment, while
several other personages well-known in Roman society came up to pay
their respects to His Excellency the Minister.  Then at last the
Under-Secretary managed to whisper--

"Let's get away.  I must see you without further delay.  Come."

And together they strolled through the magnificent salons with their
brilliant crowds and presently entered a small, barely furnished room in
a distant part of the historic old palace which is now the residence of
the representative of the French Republic.  As soon as they were within
Borselli switched on the electric light, closed the door and locked it.

When he turned to the Minister the latter saw that his countenance had
changed.  He was pale and anxious, as though he had information of the
highest importance to impart.

"Well?" asked Morini, wondering why he had brought him there so
mysteriously.

"I have been in London again," the other exclaimed.  "The truth of the
Sazarac affair is known!"

Camillo Morini held his breath, his brows knit themselves, and his teeth
were set hard.  If this were a fact, then Borselli himself must have
revealed the truth, for he alone knew it.  What Ricci had told him had
opened his eyes to this fellow's secret intentions.  This was, no doubt,
part of the vile, despicable conspiracy to secure the downfall of the
Ministry.  He knew that Angelo Borselli, the ambitious schemer with the
rank of general, who owed everything to him, was his bitterest opponent,
and he now saw an opportunity of fathoming the ingenious ramifications
of the plot that was to effect his ruin.  He was, however, too well
versed in statesmanship to betray in his face the inner workings of his
mind, and Borselli, notwithstanding that consummate craft which was his
most prominent characteristic, had no suspicion that his chief was aware
of the conspiracy.

"If the truth regarding General Sazarac is out, my dear Angelo," he said
quite calmly, "then you must forgive me for suspecting that the
catastrophe is due to your own indiscretion."

"Ah, my dear friend, there you are entirely wrong!" the other declared
in a low, intense voice.  "A man whom you know in England is well aware
of the whole of the facts."

"And who is he, pray?" inquired the Minister, still preserving an
outward calm that was perfect.

"The young Englishman George Macbean--the man who was staying with
Sinclair of Thornby."

"Macbean?" slowly repeated His Excellency, gradually recalling to his
memory the young Englishman whom Mary had introduced to him upon his own
lawn.  "Ah, of course!  I recollect.  He is Sinclair's nephew, and
secretary to that fellow Morgan-Mason who came to Rome to see us about
provisioning."

"The same.  He knows everything."

The Minister was silent.  His brows were knit.  He recollected Macbean
quite well, and wondered whether what Borselli was telling him were the
actual truth.  Since Vito Ricci had revealed the amazing cunning with
which the Under-Secretary was working, he naturally mistrusted him.

"Well, and what does it matter?" asked Morini, still quite cool.

"Matter?" gasped the other.  "Matter?  Why, if he reveals what he knows
it will mean ruin for us both--ruin?"

"You have expressed fear several times, my dear Angelo," laughed the
Minister, leaning easily with his back to the table.  "For myself, I
entertain no fear.  How did you discover that he held this knowledge?"

"I had my suspicions, and I therefore returned to England and found him
in London.  I did not approach him myself, of course, but from
information I gathered I know that he must be aware of the whole truth.
That being so, we must not risk any revelations."

"But even if he really does know, what motive could he ever have in
bringing any distinct charge?" queried Morini, facing the man who, he
knew, intended to himself occupy the post of Minister of War.

"You forget that he is secretary to that overbearing parvenu
Morgan-Mason, and that the latter was Sazarac's most intimate friend."

Camillo Morini bit his lip.  He had never thought of that.  The affair
of General Sazarac was to the public a mystery--one which the English
Member of Parliament had actively endeavoured to solve.  The young
Englishman Macbean, if he really knew the truth, might be induced by his
employer to speak!  In an instant he recognised a further peril in a
quarter hitherto entirely unexpected.

"You are quite certain he knows?"

"Absolutely."

"By what means did he learn the truth?"

"Ah, that is not clear!" responded the thin-faced man.  "He knows; but
how, is more than we can tell.  The merchant of provisions, his
employer, was the general's friend.  Therefore the general probably knew
the secretary, and may have taken him into his confidence!  Cannot you
therefore see that the fellow must be given an appointment in our
Ministry?  We cannot afford to allow him to remain the secretary of this
parvenu, treated worse than a dog, ill-paid and sneered at on account of
his superior birth and education.  We must run no risk."

"Then the English Member of Parliament is not a very good employer--eh?"

"The reverse; a very bad one.  He is a man who rose from being an
assistant in a grocer's shop in a London suburb to be what he is, the
greatest dealer in provisions in all the world--a man who is worshipped
in London society because of his millions, and upon whose smile even an
English duchess will hang.  Ah, my dear Camillo!  You, although you have
a house in England, do not know those English.  They are a people of
millions; and in society they count their virtues by the millions they
possess.  I know a man who was a waiter in an hotel in South Africa a
few years ago who now has the proud English nobility--their milords and
their miladies--around his table.  They eat his dinners, they shoot his
birds, they use his yacht, they beg of him for loans--and yet they jeer
and laugh at him behind his back.  It is so with this member of the
English Parliament to whom our young friend now acts as secretary."

"I cannot see your point," said the Minister of War, his uniform-hat
tucked beneath his arm.

"Cannot you see that if this Englishman really knows the story of
Sazarac it is to our mutual interests that he should not speak of it?
It might mean ruin for us," Borselli pointed out in a low, earnest
voice.  "Cannot you see that, being in the employ of that pompous
hog-merchant Morgan-Mason, and badly paid for his services he is longing
for a higher and more lucrative position?  Is it not but natural?  He
knows Italy, and would be only too eager to accept an appointment in the
Ministry--where we really want a good English secretary.  Such a man
would be of the utmost value to both of us."

"Then you suggest that we should offer him an appointment?"

"Exactly," was Borselli's reply.  "If you agree to give the fellow a
secretaryship, leave the rest to me.  He will be only too eager to
accept an appointment under the Government, and once in Rome and in our
employ, he will never dare to open his mouth regarding the ugly affair."

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

COUNTING THE COST.

Next day at noon Mary, who was out driving in the smart English
victoria, called at the Ministry and again sat alone with her father
trying to persuade him to order an inquiry into the case of the
unfortunate Felice Solaro.

"It is useless, my dear," was his impatient answer.  "He has already
been here himself, but the case is proved up to the very hilt.  I
therefore cannot interfere."

"Proved by that woman Nodari?" she cried, with fierce indignation.
Then, after a pause, she leaned towards him and said in a low, earnest
voice, "You will not allow an inquiry because you fear its result,
father?"

"Hush!  Who told you that?" he gasped, staring at her.

"No one.  It is only a logical conclusion.  The captain is the victim of
a wicked conspiracy, and he is suffering in silence because he knows the
utter futility of appeal."

"He has already appealed to me."

"And you have refused him justice!" was his daughter's quick reproachful
declaration.  "You are surely not unjust, father?  You cannot be."

The tall, distinguished-looking man was silent, and rising, walked up
the long strip of carpet placed upon the marble floor.  Then slowly he
returned to her, and looking straight into her face, said--

"My hands are tied, my girl.  I am powerless, I confess to you."

"But in your heart you believe that he is innocent?  Tell me the truth."

"Yes," he whispered in a broken voice.  "I do--I do."

She made no response.  His admission was full of a poignant meaning.
She saw that he was somehow fettered, held in some mysterious bondage of
which she was in ignorance.

Again she spoke of the examination of the safe by Dubard, but this
matter he seemed disinclined to discuss, and pleading other affairs, he
urged her to return home and await him at luncheon.

At three o'clock, after eating his midday meal with her, he went forth
again to make a round of official calls, when, a quarter of an hour
later, the Italian footman threw open the long white doors of the small
salon where Mary was sitting writing letters, and announced--

"Comte Dubard!"

She started quickly, held her breath, and rose to greet her visitor,
who, foppishly dressed in a pale grey flannel suit, came forward
smiling, and, drawing his heels together, bowed low over her white hand.
The man's calm impertinence and cool unscrupulousness held her
speechless.

"I thought you were still at San Donato," she stammered, when at last
she found tongue.  "I had no idea you were here, in Rome."

"I have followed you," he declared, smiling.  "You left the villa
unknown to me, and therefore I have come to you."

"For what reason?" she inquired, her brows slightly elevated.

"Because--well, because I fear that the reason of your sudden journey is
to reveal to your father those things which I told you in confidence the
other day.  Remember the future rests entirely in your own hands.  He
must know nothing--at least at present."

"And is that the only reason you are here, count?" she asked meaningly,
standing before him with her hands behind her back, her splendid dark
eyes fixed upon him.

"I come here as your friend to warn you that silence is best at this
moment.  A word to your father will precipitate the crisis.  I know," he
went on, "that you are convinced that an injustice has been done in the
case of poor Solaro.  Your attitude the other evening showed me that.
But I beg of you to make no effort to clear his character, because, in
the first place, any such attempt must of necessity fail; and secondly,
your father's enemies would at once shriek of the insecurity of the
French frontier.  No," he argued, speaking in a low tone in French, "you
must keep your own counsel, mademoiselle.  If this catastrophe is to be
averted, if the Cabinet is to be saved, then it must be by some
ingenious means that are not apparent to your father's enemies."

She stood listening to this declaration of friendship by the man who had
pried into her father's secrets.  It was on the tip of her tongue to
openly charge him with ulterior motives, nevertheless her better
judgment prevailed.  She recognised, as her father had pointed out, that
no good end could be served by showing her hand at that juncture,
therefore she allowed him to argue without raising her voice in protest.
He had followed her from Tuscany because he was apprehensive lest she
should tell her father the truth.  Why?  He was in fear of something; of
what, she could not tell.

A great conspiracy, ingenious and widespread, was afoot to encompass her
father's ruin, therefore she resolved to remain at his side and at any
cost face the perils of exposure.  The few hours she had spent in her
father's society had shown that, so full was he of his responsible
official duties and affairs concerning the army of Italy, he had, in a
few weeks, become an entirely changed man.  His face was now pale and
drawn, and when he sat alone with her there rested upon his countenance
a haunted look--the look of a man who was face to face with ruin.
Loving her father, she had been quick to recognise the truth.  At first
it had staggered her, but her surprise and horror had given place to a
deep filial sympathy, and while determined to hide her secret from her
mother, she had become at the same time her father's confidante and
friend.

"I am quite well aware of the intentions of the Opposition," she
answered coldly, after a painful pause.  "But I am not in the least
apprehensive.  My father has for so many years been a faithful servant
of his sovereign that the Italian people still have confidence in him.
Neither the country nor the Camera can fail to recognise the many
reforms he has introduced into the army, or how he has alleviated the
lot of the common conscript."

"Ah!" he exclaimed, with a deep sigh.  "I am glad that you recognise
your father's strong position--the strongest of any man in the Italian
Government.  Nevertheless," he added, "those shrieking firebrands can,
if they so desire, set Italy aflame.  We have that truth to face, and we
must face it."

Her lips were pressed together, for she saw how cleverly he was changing
his tactics towards her.  She also recognised how, by appearing to have
confidence in the future, she could place him off his guard.  Her
father's honour was, she felt, in her hands, and the magnitude of the
issue aroused within her all her woman's innate tact and courage.

"I came to Rome because my father telegraphed to me," she said quite
simply.  "He wanted to take me with him to Palermo to visit my aunt, but
the king's programme is changed, so we are not going after all.  I
intend to return to San Donato the day after to-morrow.  It is still too
hot in Rome."

"Ah! then I own myself quite mistaken," he laughed.  "I have been unduly
anxious, for I attributed your sudden departure to your natural desire
to tell His Excellency all that I had explained in confidence.  We men,
you know, are in the habit of saying that women cannot keep secrets."

"I can keep one," she declared.

"Yes," he answered.  "I know you can.  Upon your secrecy in this affair
the very fate of the Ministry depends, believe me.  You know that I am
your father's true friend--as well as yours."

She held her breath, and her eyes met his.

"You have told me that several times before," she remarked in a quiet,
mechanical voice and with an assumed air of unconcern.

"And I mean it," he said earnestly.  "Only you had better not tell your
father that I am here.  It is, perhaps, unwise to let him know that I
have followed you from San Donato--he may suspect."

"Suspect what?"

"Well, suspect the reason of my visit to you to-day," he said, surprised
at her quick question.  "You see I have come here because--well, to tell
you the truth," he faltered, "I am here to tell you something which I
wanted to say at San Donato--yet I dared not."

"What--is it bad news?" she asked, looking at him with some
apprehension.

A long silence fell between them.  He was watching her, hesitating
whether he should speak.  At length, however, he suddenly took her hand
and said--

"As I have told you, I am your father's friend.  You may doubt me;
probably you do.  But one day I shall prove to you that I am acting
solely from motives of friendship--that I am endeavouring to shield your
father from the impending blow."

"If you are, why do you not go to my father and tell him everything?"
she asked, inwardly filled with doubt and mistrust.

"Because, as I have told you, it is impolitic to do so at this moment.
We must wait."

"And while we wait his enemies may take advantage."

"No, not yet.  Their plans are not yet complete," he answered.  "I was
at the Camera last evening, and discovered the exact situation.  If we
are patient and watchful we may yet turn the weapon of our enemies
against themselves."

He saw that she was grave and thoughtful, that his advice caused her to
reflect; while she, on her part, did not divulge what she had already
told His Excellency.

They stood together at the window, where the long green sun-shutters
were closed to keep out the blazing heat of afternoon, and as he looked
upon her handsome profile in that dim half-light he saw that her face
and figure in her cool white dress was the most perfect that he had ever
gazed upon even in the _haut monde_ of Paris.  In the air was the
stifling oppression of the storm-cloud: "You are sad," he said presently
in a calm, low voice as he leaned against the broad marble sill of the
window, where a welcome breath of air reached them from the silent
sun-baked street below.

Her dark eyes were fixed upon the opposite wall, and her hands were
clasped in pensive attitude; for his manner had mystified her, knowing
all that he had done in the silence of the night at San Donato.

"I fear the future," she declared frankly, starting at his words and
turning her gaze upon him.

"But what have you to fear?" he asked, bending slowly towards her with
an intense look in his eyes.  "I am your friend equally with your
father's, as I have already declared, and fortunately I know the
intentions and the dastardly intrigues of those who are plotting his
ruin."

"Then you can save him by exposing their plot?" she cried, utterly
amazed at his words.  "You will--will you not?" she implored
breathlessly.

"I can save him--yes, I can, within twelve hours, cause the very men who
now seek the downfall of the Ministry to fly in fear from Rome," he
said.  Then, after a pause, he added, "I know the truth."

"And you will tell it?" she urged breathlessly, advancing towards him.
"My father's future, my own future, the honour of our house all depend
upon you."  He had examined her father's private papers, and undoubtedly
knew the truth on both sides.  He had acted with the enemy, and yet he
declared himself to be her friend?  "You will save my father?" she
implored.

With a sudden movement he took her hand in his and whispered in a quick,
earnest voice into her ear--

"Yes, I will save him--on one condition.  Of late, Mary, I have noticed
that you have avoided me--that--that you somehow appear to shun me in
suspicion and mistrust.  You doubt my good intentions towards you and
your family.  But I will give proof of them if you will only allow me."

She felt his hot breath upon her cheek, and trembled.

"Save my father from the hands of these unscrupulous office-seekers,"
she panted.  "His honour--his very life is to-day at stake."

"Upon two conditions, Mary," was his low, quiet answer, still holding
her hand firmly in his.  "That he gives his consent to our marriage, and
that you are willing to become my wife."

"Your wife!" she gasped, drawing her hand away, starting back, and
looking blankly at him with her magnificent eyes.  "_Your wife_!"

"Yes.  I love you, Mary," he cried passionately, taking her hand again,
"I love you.  You must have seen how for months past I have lived for
you alone, yet I dared not, until to-day, reveal the truth.  Say one
word--only say that you will be mine--and your father shall crush those
who intend to wreck and ruin him."

"You--then you make marriage the price of my father's triumph?" she
faltered hoarsely, as the ghastly truth gradually dawned upon her.

"Yes," he cried, raising her inert hand to his hot lips.  "Because I
love you, Mary!--because I cannot live without you!  Be mine.  Speak the
word, and I will reveal the truth and save your father from ruin."

But, realising the cleverly laid trap into which she had fallen, she
stood silent and rigid, her eyes fixed upon him in an agony of blank,
unutterable despair.

CHAPTER NINETEEN.

THE SACRIFICE.

The glaring afternoon had drawn to a close.

Camillo Morini, after a heavy day's work in the silence of the big old
library at San Donato shaded from the sun-glare, rose, and joining Mary,
went out along the hill to enjoy the _bel fresco_ of the departing day.
The Italian habit is to go out and wander at sundown, and when up at his
villa His Excellency always made it a rule to take a stroll through the
cool pine woods, generally accompanied by Mary; for his wife was not a
good walker, and seldom ventured far.  Therefore father and daughter, in
the two hours preceding dinner, frequently made excursions on foot
through the smiling vineyards and great pine forests around the
magnificent old mansion.

They had skirted the mediaeval walls of the village and passed down the
old cypress avenue, saluted on every side by their _contadini_, then
striking off on a bypath through the wood they halted at a point known
by the countryfolk as the Massa del Fate--or Fairy's Rock--where there
opened suddenly before them a magnificent view--Tuscany, the paradise of
Europe, in the sundown.

Surely nothing could be so beautiful as the lines of the Arno valley,
the gentle inclination of the hills, and the soft fugitive outlines of
the mountains which bounded them.  A singular tint and most peculiar
harmony united the earth, the sky, and the wide winding river.  All the
surfaces were blended at their extremities by means of an insensible
gradation of colour, and without the possibility of ascertaining the
point at which one ended or another began.  It appeared ideal,
possessing a beauty beyond nature; it was nevertheless the genuine light
of old-world Tuscany.

The Minister of War, in his white drill suit and straw hat, a trifle
negligent of attire as he always was when he was up there in that remote
retreat, halted at the break in the high dark pines, gazed out upon the
marvellous panorama, and inhaled a deep breath of the cool, refreshing
wind that came up from the valley with the sundown.

After hours of intricate work in his darkened study he stood there to
refresh himself, while Mary, in pale blue with a big straw hat, was at
his side, her eyes turned away up the valley, reflecting upon some
meaning words he had just uttered.

Mary often came to that lonely point on the high-up estate to enjoy the
grand scene of departing day.  In that hour, when the evening bells came
up from the white villages dotted far below, the summits of the
Apennines appeared to consist of lapis-lazuli and pale gold, while their
bases and sides were enveloped in a vapour which had a tint now violet,
now purple.  Beautiful clouds like light chariots borne on the wind with
inimitable grace that came from seaward made one easily comprehend the
appearance of the Olympian deities under that mythological sky.  Ancient
Florence seemed to have stretched out all the purple of her Cardinals,
her Signori, and her Medici, and spread it under the last steps of the
God of Day.

"Well?" asked the Minister, as he watched the girl's beautiful face set
full to the dying sunset and saw the far-off look in her wonderful eyes.

"I have nothing to say, father--nothing," was her quiet answer as she
turned to him, and he saw that she was on the point of tears.

"Then you are content that it should be so?  I mean you will permit me
to give a favourable reply to the count?" he said, not without some
hesitation.  He had aged visibly since those quiet days in rural
England, and the lines upon his pale brow gave him an expression of deep
anxiety.

She sighed, and for a few moments made no response.

"Is it your wish that I should marry him?" she asked in a low,
mechanical tone, her face pale, her hands trembling.

"I have no desire to place undue pressure upon you, my dear," he said,
placing his hand kindly upon her shoulder.  "I merely ask you what
response you wish me to give.  He came to me while I was sitting alone
in Rome three nights ago, and requested permission to pay his court to
you."

"And what response did you give?" she inquired in a voice scarcely above
a whisper.

"I told him that I desired to hear your own views before giving him an
answer."

She was again silent, her face turned to the darkening valley.  The
sundown in Italy disappears less quickly than in England, for when the
tints are on the point of vanishing they suddenly break out again and
illumine some other point of the horizon.  Twilight succeeds twilight,
and the charm of closing day is prolonged.

"And what is your wish, father?" she asked presently, still looking
blankly before her; for those grey fading lights seemed to be but the
reflection of her own fading life and happiness.

"Well, Mary," he said, his hand still upon her shoulder, "let me speak
frankly and candidly.  This morning I discussed the matter fully with
your mother, and we both came to the conclusion that the count is a very
eligible man.  Neither of us desire you to marry if you entertain no
love for him, but both in England and in Italy we have noticed for a
year past that you have not been averse to his attentions, and--well, I
may as well tell you quite plainly, my dear--we have been much gratified
to think that the attraction has been mutual.  Yet," he added, "it lies
with you entirely to accept or to reject him."

"It would please you, father, if I became the Comtesse Dubard, would it
not?" she asked, tears that were beyond her control springing to her
eyes.

"It would please both of us," he said in a low, earnest voice.  "But you
yourself must decide.  That he will make you a good husband, I have no
doubt.  Yet, as I have already said, as your father I would be the very
last to endeavour to force you to marry a man you do not love."

She did not reply.  He stood gazing upon her face, and his own thoughts
were sad ones.  Soon, very soon, the blow might fall, and then his wife
and daughter would be left alone.  He was, therefore, anxious to see her
married before that catastrophe, which he knew was inevitable.

When the count had sat with him that evening making his request, he
recollected the strange story Mary had told him regarding the secret
examination of his papers.  It was curious--so curious and so utterly
devoid of motive that he could see no reason in it.  Yet if that
Frenchman had really discovered certain things concealed behind that
green-painted steel door, it was to his interest that he should become
his son-in-law and so preserve the secret.

Yes, he was anxious to see his daughter married to that man to whom he
had taken such a personal liking, yet he affected to leave the decision
entirely in her own hands.

She spoke at last in a hard, tuneless voice, as though her youth and
life were slowly dying just as surely as the day was fading.

"If it is your wish, father, that I should become his wife, you may give
him an affirmative answer.  But--"

And she suddenly burst into a torrent of hot tears.

"Ah no! no!" her father cried, touching her pale cheek tenderly.  "No.
Do not give way, dear.  I have no desire that you should marry this man
if you yourself do not really love him.  Perhaps your mother has been
mistaken, but by various signs and looks that both of us noticed in Rome
and in England, we believed that you entertained for him a warm
affection."

"I know that my marriage would please you," she said.  "Mother gave me
to understand that two months ago, therefore,"--and she paused as though
she could not utter the words which were to decide her fate--"therefore
I am willing to accept him."

"Ah, Mary!" he exclaimed quickly, his face brightening, for her decision
aroused hope within him.  "I need not tell you what happiness your words
bring to me.  I confess to you that I have hoped that you would give
your consent, for I would rather see you the wife of the count, with
wealth and position, than married to any other man I know.  He loves
you--of that I am convinced.  Has he never told you so?"

She did not answer for a few moments.  She was reflecting upon that
scene in the little salon in Rome when he had revealed himself to her in
his true colours.

"Yes," she answered at last in that same hard, colourless voice.  "He
told me so once."

He attributed her blank, despairing look to the natural emotion of the
moment.  It was the great crisis of her young life, for she was deciding
her future.  He was in ignorance of how already she had made the compact
with Dubard--of how she had decided to sacrifice herself in order to
save him.

Her father, in ignorance of the truth of how nobly she was acting, went
on to analyse the young Frenchman's good qualities and relate to her all
that he had learnt regarding him.

"His youth has been no better and no worse than that of any young man
brought up in Paris," he said, "yet from the information I have gathered
it seems that he has sown his wild oats long ago, and for the past
couple of years he has given up racing and gambling and all such vices
of youth, and has become a perfect model of what a young man should be.
Men who know him in Paris speak highly of him as a man of real grit--a
man with a future before him.  You do not think, Mary," he went on,
"that I should have welcomed him as a guest at my table if I were not
sure that he was a man worthy the name of friend?"

"Ah!" she sighed, "you have, my dear father, sometimes been disappointed
in your friendships, I fear.  Angelo Borselli, for instance, has been
your friend through many years."

"Angelo!" he exclaimed impatiently.  "Yes, yes, I know.  But I am
speaking of Jules--of the man you have consented to marry."

A slight hardness showed at the corners of her mouth at mention of the
man who had so cleverly entrapped her.  She knew that escape was
impossible.  He could place her father in a position of triumph over his
enemies, and in return claimed herself.  Ah! if she could only speak the
truth; if she could only take her father into her confidence, and show
him the reason she so readily gave her consent to a union that was
odious to her!  Yet she knew that if she gave him the slightest
suspicion of her self-sacrifice he would withhold his consent, and the
result would be dire disaster.

She knew her father's brave, unflinching nobility of character.  Rather
than he would allow her to marry a man whom she hated and mistrusted, he
would face ruin--even death.

And for that reason she, pale and silent, gazing into the rising mists,
accepted the man who had made her father's honour the price of her own
life.

"Tell the count," she said, in a voice broken by emotion, "tell him that
I am ready to be his wife."

And her father, gladdened at what he, in his ignorance, believed to be a
wise decision, bent to her and pressed his lips to her cheek with
fatherly affection, in a vain endeavour to kiss her tears away.

They were not tears of emotion, but of a sweet and tender woman's blank
despair.

CHAPTER TWENTY.

TELLS THE TRUTH.

On the following afternoon, in consequence of a telegram, the Minister
of War drove into Florence, and met Vito Ricci at the club.

He seldom took the train to Florence because, on account of his
position, the obsequious officials treated him with so much ceremony.
He was a modest man, who at heart hated all bowing officialdom, much
preferring to drive through the rich vineyards of the Arno valley to
being received at the station by all the officials and having the
ordinary traffic stopped on his arrival.

The Florence Club, an institution run upon English lines, is one of the
most exclusive in Europe.  It occupies the whole of a huge flat in the
new Piazza Vittorio Emmanuele, handsomely appointed, with fine spacious
rooms overlooking the busy centre of Florentine life.  Its members are
mostly men of the highest social standing in Italy, together with a
select few of rich English and Americans, to whom membership gives the
hall-mark of rank in that complex cosmopolitan world.  In winter and
spring its rooms are well-filled and its bridge-tables are well
patronised, but in summer and autumn, when all Florence is away in the
mountains or at the sea, it is deserted and handed over to the care of a
couple of waiters, who scarcely see a member from one week's end to the
other.

The Deputy Ricci had telegraphed that he had no time to come up to San
Donato, as he could only spend three hours in Florence; therefore the
club was the most convenient place where they could meet and consult
undisturbed.  The urgency of Ricci's message had aroused the other's
apprehensions that something was amiss.

"Ah!" cried the deputy in relief as the Minister entered the small
card-room where he stood impatiently awaiting him.  "I began to fear
that my telegram had not reached you."  And the pair having shaken
hands, Ricci went to the door and locked it.

Then when they crossed to the window, which gave a view of the wide-open
piazza with its colossal statue in the centre, Ricci said--

"I left Rome this morning at nine, and I return by the express at six.
I came here purposely to see you."

"Has something occurred?" asked His Excellency quickly, glancing at the
dark face of the Piedmontese lawyer who sat in the Chamber of Deputies
and made politics his living.

"Yes," was Ricci's answer in a low half-whisper.  "You recollect our
conversation when we met last--about the impending crisis?"

"Yes.  You promised, for certain considerations, to turn the political
tide in my favour."

"I have tried to do so, but have failed," said the other in a deep,
serious voice.

"Failed?" gasped the Minister as, in an instant, all the light died out
of his face.

"The Opposition is too strong," he explained.  "Borselli has so
completely won over the Socialists that he can cause them to dance to
any tune he pleases."

Camillo Morini's face was blanched.  Ruin was before him--ruin, utter
and complete.  He had trusted in Vito, feeling confidence in that
adventurer's ingenuity and influence.  More than once this adventurer
had cleverly turned the tide of popular thought, for certain journals
were always open to write what the popular deputy for Asti dictated, and
of course received substantial bribes for so doing.  Yet at this most
crucial moment he had failed!

"I made you the payment on condition that you were successful in
rendering me the service," remarked His Excellency hoarsely.

"I know, I know," was the other's response.  "I have brought back the
money to repay you."  And he took from his leather wallet a banker's
draft, which he handed to the Minister.

The tall, thin, refined-looking man stood motionless, his eyes fixed for
a moment upon the slip of paper thus offered back to him.  He recognised
that the efforts of his secret agent, whose services had so often been
invaluable, were of no avail, that his doom was sealed.

"No.  Keep it, Vito," he said hoarsely, with a dry, hollow laugh, that
sarcasm born of desperation.  "You have earned it--keep it."

The other raised his shoulders in regret, and then, with a word of
thanks, replaced the draft in his pocket.

There was a long silence.  A company of _bersaglieri_, those well-set-up
men with their round hats and cock's plumes, were crossing the piazza,
marching to the fanfare of trumpets, and behind them came a company of
the Misericordia, that mediaeval confraternity disguised in their long
black gowns with slits for their eyes, passing with their ambulance on
an errand of mercy.

Morini gazed upon that weird, tragic procession hurrying across the
square, and within him there arose grave and morbid reflections.  He had
worked for Italy, had given his whole soul to the reform of the army and
the perfecting of the defences of the nation he had loved so well.  It
was more the fault of the system than his own that he had been guilty of
dishonesty.  The other members of the Cabinet were equally guilty of
misappropriating the national funds.  They were, indeed, compelled to do
so in order to keep up their position, to maintain and pay the secret
agents they employed, and to bribe the men of influence from seeking to
expose their thefts.

Surely poor strangled Italy under the regime of his lamented Majesty
King Umberto was in very evil case!

"I have trusted in you, Vito," the Minister said simply, when he again
found tongue, for the ugly truth had utterly staggered him.

"And I have done my best, your Excellency," was the other's reply.  "In
the Camera and out of it, I have worked unceasingly in order to try and
win you back into favour, but Borselli is far too strong.  He has
influential friends, who believe they will obtain appointments and money
if he is in office as Minister of War.  Hence they are working by every
means to place him in power."

"And to cause my downfall and ruin!" murmured the unhappy man, staring
blankly down at the piazza, still dazzlingly white in the hot sun-glare.

The adventurer sighed.  To Camillo Morini he owed everything, and was
conscious of the fact.  He had no words to express his regret at his
failure, for he knew too well all that it meant to the man before him.

"The success of the French secret service upon the Alpine frontier is
the chief capital of the Opposition," Ricci explained.  "They say you
have connived at it, and that Solaro was assisted by your daughter, the
Signorina Mary."

"Solaro assisted by her!  How?"

"They have discovered that he was her friend.  They were noticed
together in Rome a year ago, when they allege that she gave him certain
information gathered from your papers, which, in due course, reached the
French Ministry of War!"

"Impossible?" declared the Minister.  "They are acquainted, I know.  But
my daughter would never assist a traitor.  It is infamous?"

"I quite agree with you.  I cannot believe the signorina guilty of any
such action.  Yet the truth remains that the secrets of the Tresenta are
actually in the hands of France."

"I know," groaned the unhappy man.  "I know, Vito.  But Solaro is
disgraced and imprisoned.  Surely that is enough for them?"

"No.  You misunderstand.  They are raising the cry everywhere that Italy
is in danger--that you personally are culpable."

"They will say next that I myself have sold the plans to France!" he
cried bitterly.

"Ah! you know the kind of men Borselli has behind him--the most
unscrupulous set of office-seekers in Italy.  They will hesitate at
nothing in order to arouse the public indignation against you.  The fire
is already kindled, and they are now fanning it into a flame.  I tried
to extinguish it.  I offered a dozen bribes in various quarters, knowing
that you would willingly pay to secure safety--but all were rejected
because of Borselli's promise to them of fat emoluments in the future."

"Italy!" cried the Minister.  "Oh, Italy!  Must you fall into the hands
of such a gang of thieves?  I have done my best.  Dishonesty has been
forced upon me by this very man who now seeks to hound me out of office
and take my place.  I have been blind, Vito," he added, "utterly blind."

"Yes," sighed the other, "I fear you have.  Borselli has laid his plans
too well, and arranged the conspiracy with too deep a cunning, to fail.
I naturally believed that he could be fought with his own weapons, but I
have found myself mistaken.  We must, alas! face the worst!  To-morrow
the Socialists are to raise the question of Tresenta in the Camera; the
vote will be taken, the Government defeated, and the whole blame will
fall upon yourself.  Borselli's organs of the Press all have their
orders to shriek and scream at you, to demand a searching inquiry
regarding the disposal of certain sums set apart for the army--even to
the giving of contracts to German contractors."

Morini started, and his grave face went paler.

"Then Borselli has betrayed me--he, who is equally guilty with myself?"

"To his friends who intend to obtain Government appointments at high
salaries he is innocent, while you alone are guilty," Ricci pointed out.
Then, sighing again, he added in a sympathetic voice,--for although a
political adventurer he was nevertheless a firm personal friend of the
Minister's,--"I declare to you, Camillo, I have done my very utmost.
But the weak point in our armour is the Tresenta affair, and the
signorina's acquaintance with the traitor Solaro.  The natural
conclusion, of course, is that she assisted him."

"But what do they say of his friendship for her?"

"They allege that she was in love with him, but that, being only an
officer with little else but his pay, he feared to approach you to
obtain your permission to pay court to her, and that she, in order that
he might obtain money from the French War Intelligence Department, gave
him copies of certain secret documents which were in your possession."

"But I have no plans of the Tresenta," he declared quickly.

"There are other matters of which they allege the French have gained
knowledge--details of the new mobilisation scheme."

"Those papers are safely locked up at the Ministry," he answered.  "Mary
has no knowledge of their existence."

"If France obtained copies of them, would they be of service to her?"

"Of course.  They would reveal our vulnerable points, and would show
where she might strike us in order to destroy the concentration of our
troops upon the frontier.  Those papers are the most important of any we
possess.  The commanders of the various military districts have their
secret orders, but they would be useless without the key to the complete
scheme, which is kept safely from prying eyes in the Ministry.  The
French have surely not obtained a copy of that!" he gasped.

"It seems that they have--through your daughter, it is alleged."  Then
he added, with a sigh, "They have all their facts ready to launch
against you."

"Their untruths--their lies!" he cried desperately, clenching his fist.
"Ah, it is cruel!  It is infamous!  They even go so far as to brand my
daughter--my dear Mary--as a traitress!"

And the strong man of Italy--the ruler of a European army--covered his
face with his hands and sobbed aloud.

Vito Ricci had failed, yet was it any wonder that Morini's enemies
sought to attack his honour by making false and ignominious allegations
against his daughter?

The unhappy man looked into the future of ruin, disgrace, perhaps
prosecution by those very men who had been his friends, and saw but one
way open from that shame--death.

And yet was not such a thought irreligious and cowardly?  If they
intended to attack his daughter, was it not his duty to defend her and
vindicate her good name?

Ricci, unscrupulous as he had been through years of political life,
sometimes holding by his intrigues the very fate of Italy in his hands,
stood by in silence, his chin sunk upon his breast, for he knew too well
that the ill-judged man to whom he was indebted for so much was to be
made the scapegoat of the corrupt Ministry--he knew that the man before
him was doomed, and yet he was utterly powerless to save him, even
though he was prepared to go to any length to attain that end.

Then, a moment later, when Camillo Morini thought of that degraded
officer, silent and suffering in the gloom of his prison, his mouth
hardened, he held his breath, and his jaws became hard set.  He
remembered how that accused man had broken his sword before him and cast
the pieces at his feet as guage of his innocence.

Yet the die was cast.  To-day he, Camillo Morini, was Italian Minister
of War, and the trusted adviser of his sovereign, King Umberto.  But
to-morrow--to-morrow?  Ah! would that the morrow could not come.

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE.

THE EAR OF THE MINISTER.

After luncheon Camillo Morini left his wife, Mary, and the three young
English girls, Anna and Eva Fry and Violet Walters, and retired as usual
to his study.  He had been silent and thoughtful at table, and his wife,
ignorant of the crisis, attributed it to worry over state affairs, as
was so often the case.  A Minister's life is never a happy one, and
always full of grave responsibilities.

Her Excellency had seen her husband, to whom she was so devoted, age
before his time, and in the years gone by she had greatly assisted him
by her wise counsels and womanly help.

He looked at her in silence from where he sat at the head of the table,
and sighed bitterly to himself.  If he told her all, the shock would be
too great for her.  It might, indeed, have serious consequences.
Therefore he was compelled to keep his secret from everyone save Mary.

The long green sun-shutters were closed, and the great, high, old
frescoed room in which he sat alone was in half-darkness.  He had told
the liveried servant Francesco that he did not wish to be disturbed, and
on entering had locked the door behind him.  It was a dull, depressing
room at any time, for the ponderous cases of old vellum-bound books
breathed an atmosphere of a glorious but forgotten past.  Gerino's
frescoed angels looked down upon him from the ceiling, and the ponderous
beams still bore traces of bright colouring and faded gilt.  Closed
against the stifling heat outside, only a few rays of light struck
across the big writing-table where His Excellency was sitting
dejectedly, his head buried in his hands.  From without came the
monotonous hum of the insects and the harsh chirp of the cicale, the
only live things astir under the burning Tuscan sun.

His wife and the girls had gone to their rooms for the siesta, previous
to driving over to Montelupo to visit the Marchioness Altieri, and he
was alone with his bitter grief and blank despair.

Little sleep had come to his eyes for the past week.  Last night he had
spent the hours under the steely sky, first down in the valley and then
away over the mountains until he reached a point high up on a barren
summit, where he sank down upon a heap of stones and watched the
breaking of day over the Apennines.  His thoughts were always of what
Vito had revealed to him, and of his failure.

His return to the house had passed unnoticed, and after a wash he had
taken his coffee and entered that room with a firm and desperate
resolve.  The whole morning he had occupied in placing his papers in
order, arranging them carefully, tying them in bundles, and scribbling
certain instructions upon each, with the names of the secretaries or
other officials to whom they were to be handed.

He had worked on in grim silence, sighing sometimes and laughing
bitterly to himself at others.  More than once he murmured Mary's name
or that of his beloved wife, while nearly the whole time his kind eyes
were filled with tears.

At luncheon he had motioned Francesco to give him a liqueur-glass of
cognac with his coffee, a most unusual proceeding, for he was a very
abstemious man, and now he sat motionless, his fingers in his grey hair,
staring thoughtfully at the blotting-pad before him.

For fully half an hour he remained in that position, often murmuring to
himself.  He was reflecting upon all the bitterness of the past.  He,
the man whose name was one to conjure with in Italy, was at that moment
without one single friend to give him help or sympathy.

Suddenly the silence of the room was broken by the whir-r of the
telephone bell--the private line that connected him direct with his
secretary at the Ministry at Rome three hundred miles away.

Quickly he rose, walked to the corner where the instrument was placed,
and responded.

"The Onorevole Ricci desires to speak with your Excellency in private,"
announced the voice which he recognised as one of his private
secretaries.

"Va bene!" was the Minister's anxious response.

Vito had, before they parted at the club, arranged to telephone to him
in case of necessity.

"Are you there?" inquired the voice of the deputy for Asti.

"Yes.  What is it?" asked the Minister, as through the instrument he
distinctly heard the snap of the padded door of the telephone cabinet in
the Ministry, which was now closed against listeners.

"It is as I thought," Ricci said in a slow, distinct voice.  "I have
been active ever since my return, and it is just as I believed.  Last
night at the club, Lapi, Marchesi, Prosperi, and Montebruno were playing
bridge together, and when they had finished at half-past two I joined
them, and from their conversation learned that Montebruno is to bring
forward the question of the French frontier in the Camera.  This morning
I saw Borselli and that young Frenchman Dubard walking together in the
Corso.  They were talking earnestly, and it seemed as though the count
was telling Angelo something which surprised him.  I stopped and spoke
to them, but they appeared to betray some uneasiness at meeting me.
What do you know about the Frenchman?"

"Nothing to his detriment," was the Minister's reply.  "It is at present
a secret, but he has asked me for Mary's hand."

"Then don't give it."

"Why?"

"Because I don't like his intimate friendship with Borselli."

"It was I who first introduced them.  They met at dinner at my table,"
Morini said, surprised at his spy's warning.  "What do you suspect?"

"I have no suspicions," was the reply.  "Only if he is an intimate
friend of yours, as he seems to be if he is to marry the signorina, it
is strange that he should at this moment be so constantly in Borselli's
company.  I hear that nowadays the pair are inseparable.  They walked to
the Ministry, and were closeted together for over an hour.  This has
struck me as very curious, especially as I have just heard from a secret
socialistic source that the question is to be asked by Montebruno in the
Camera at five o'clock this afternoon."

"This afternoon?" gasped His Excellency, his countenance in an instant
white to the lips.  "Then they really mean to ask the question?"

"Yes.  I understand that the Opposition have made a sudden resolve, and
that they intend to strike the blow against the Government immediately.
To-morrow, unfortunately, all Italy will be aflame.  I only regret that
I am powerless to prevent it.  I miscalculated my influence--I admit
it."

"Then I must face the worst, Vito!" remarked the unhappy man in a low,
desperate voice, starting at his own whispered words as they seemed to
ring through the lofty, old-world room.

"The instant I heard their intentions I made investigations, and found
that nearly every Socialist deputy is in Rome ready to shriek that the
safety of the kingdom is at stake.  Our friend Borselli has indeed laid
his plans very cleverly.  But what puzzles me most is the reason Dubard
is associating himself so closely with your enemy if he intends to marry
your daughter!  He surely cannot anticipate becoming your son-in-law and
at the same time conspire to cause your downfall!  To me it is a
mystery, and that is why I urge you to be wary.  That man has some
hidden motive--depend upon it."

Morini glanced mechanically across at that big green-painted steel door
of the safe, and recollected Mary's curious story of what she had
witnessed.

"But he is very fond of Mary, and as I have given my consent to their
marriage and my daughter has accepted him, he can surely have no motive
in acting contrary to my interests."

"He is your enemy, I repeat," declared Vito Ricci.  "I have made
inquiries, and the results all point to one conclusion, namely, that he
is acting with Angelo; and, moreover, I have been told on the best
authority that certain of the charges to be made against you are based
upon information supplied by him."

"I can't believe it."

"Be patient, and you will soon see whether the facts I have gathered are
true.  The question is to be put at five o'clock.  I will telephone to
you the result as soon as it occurs.  I am going down to the Chamber at
once, and will do my very utmost; but, as you can see, against such
overwhelming opposition I am utterly powerless.  If we could prevent
Montebruno from putting the fatal question we might gain time and
perhaps succeed, but how can we prevent Borselli carrying out his
ingenious conspiracy when he is assisted in it by a hundred hungry
office-seekers and adventurers of the Socialist party?"

"Try!  Try!" urged Camillo in a wild, desperate voice.  "Try, Vito--for
the sake of my poor wife and daughter."

"Remain firm," came back the voice of the deputy.  "Be patient, and
watch the result of the attempt to wreck the Government."

"You are hopeless.  I recognise it in your voice!" wailed the desperate
man.  "I know too well that all the blame and opprobrium must fall upon
me.  They intend, as you have already told me, that I shall be the
scapegoat, and that Angelo shall take my portfolio."

The deputy returned no answer.  What, indeed, could he say?  His
Excellency, who was a shrewd, far-seeing man, spoke the truth.

"Ah, I know!" cried the Minister.  "The plot is complete.  For me, the
future is hopeless.  Yet I am more than mystified at what you tell me
regarding Dubard.  Try and discover his motive.  Do not fail me in this,
Vito, I beg of you.  My poor daughter's future depends on that."

"Trust me, my dear friend," was the response.  "Spinola is awaiting me
outside, and we are going down to Montecitorio together.  Have courage,
and after five o'clock I will ring you up again.  Addio!"

And a moment later the tiny bell rang, which showed that the
communication had been cut off.

Then Camillo Morini, after glancing at his watch and finding that it was
already three o'clock, stood immovable, his dark eyes staring across the
silent room like a man in a dream.

"Courage!  Courage!" he repeated to himself hoarsely, with a bitter
laugh.  "Courage--and for a man who has no to-morrow!"

In two short hours that voice from the Eternal City would, he knew,
sound his doom.

"I am ready?" he laughed to himself.  "I am quite ready.  They think to
place all the blame upon me, to hound me down and charge me with having
sold Italy into the hands of her enemies?"  And from his vest-pocket he
took tenderly a tiny glass tube containing three small pink tabloids,
and held it in the ray of light to satisfy himself that they were still
there under the plug of cotton wool.

Then, as he replaced the tube in his pocket and slowly paced the room,
his thoughts wandered to what Ricci had said regarding the man whom he
had given leave to marry his daughter Mary.

"He has suspicions--but of what?" he asked, speaking to himself in a
voice scarcely above a whisper.  "That he should be friendly with the
man who has so suddenly turned my enemy is certainly curious.  But he
surely cannot be seeking my ruin if he is to marry dear Mary?"

His eye caught the shining brass knobs of the safe door, and he halted
before it.  If Dubard had really examined those papers he might be aware
of the truth!  The very thought caused him to hold his breath.  But next
instant, when he reflected upon the morrow, his countenance relaxed into
a bitter smile.

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO.

CONCERNS A MAN'S DUTY.

The man whose brilliant career had ended, longed to open the safe and to
see whether certain papers it contained had really been disturbed.  But
even if he possessed the key which he had flung into the Arno on that
memorable night, it could not be opened on account of the piece of wire
which prevented the lever from working.  The truth was therefore
withheld from him.

Sometimes he regarded Mary's story as ridiculous, while at others he
wondered whether Dubard had really opened the safe in order to
investigate.  He had been inclined to think that Mary, watching through
the keyhole as she had done, had not been able to see distinctly, and
that in her limited range of vision had imagined that the safe was being
tampered with.  Ricci's words on the telephone were, however, ominous.
Apparently Dubard was in some mysterious way taking part in that vile
and despicable plot which sought to brand Mary as a traitress equally
with himself.

He turned from the safe and again flung himself into his writing-chair,
where he remained a long time with his arms folded, staring straight in
front of him.

At last he stirred himself, reached down a sheet of notepaper, and
commenced to write rapidly a letter commencing, "My dear wife."  Briefly
and to the point, he explained that he had fallen the victim of
circumstances, although he had done his best for his king and country,
and prayed for her forgiveness.

The next letter he wrote was upon the big official paper headed
"Ministro della Guerra: Divisione prima," and with tears in his eyes and
hand trembling with emotion he penned his resignation to his sovereign.
He sought to make neither explanation nor excuse.

"I have been your Majesty's obedient and trusted servant and the servant
of the Italian nation for twenty-one years," he wrote, "and during my
term of office as Minister of War my endeavour has been to improve the
condition of the army and place it upon a level with those of other
nations.  Your Majesty has been pleased to signify your gracious
pleasure at my efforts, and that, in itself, has been for me my highest
reward.  Circumstances which I could not foresee have, however, so
conspired against me and mine that I am unable to remain longer in
office, and therefore beg of your Majesty to relieve me of the portfolio
I have so long held.  I have enjoyed your Majesty's marks of favour
through many years, and I only beg most humbly to express a fervent hope
that justice may be done to me, for, if so, it will be proved that I
have never abused either my sovereign's confidence nor disgraced the
honour of the Italian people.  I pen this resignation with deep and
heartfelt regret--the regret of a man whose life has been for his
country, and who is taking leave of an office he was proud to hold, and
of a high and gratifying position in his sovereign's gracious esteem."

He read and re-read the words he had penned with such difficulty.  Such
was the ignominious end of his brilliant ministerial career!  The
resignation would go direct into the hands of His Majesty, yet before it
could reach the Quirinale he would have escaped his enemies.

The third note he wrote was to Mary, a long and tender letter, in which
he sought her forgiveness and declared himself innocent of the grave
offences with which his enemies were charging him.

"I admit that I have had faults, that I have misappropriated the public
money under dire necessity, in order to sustain my position as Minister.
Yet it is an open secret that every member of the Cabinet has done the
same.  I am no better and no worse than the others.  But as regards the
sale of our military secrets to France, I am as innocent as I believe
you to be.  They may attack you, but do not heed their charges.  Marry,
be happy, and when you recollect your father, remember him only as one
who has been more sinned against than sinning; one who has been the
victim of a foul conspiracy, ruined and broken by the false and
exaggerated charges of adventurers, but also one who, having given his
life for his king and his country, has also forgiven his enemies.  My
estates will be sold--confiscated, probably--and you and your mother
will be comparatively poor.  Yet you will, at least, have your husband
Jules to guard and protect you even though your father has left you.  I
need not speak of my regrets--for they are but vain ones.  My reputation
has been undermined, and I have fallen.  I must face the inevitable, and
do so with courage, and in the knowledge that you, Mary, my daughter,
will forgive me.  There are charges--base, false charges--which I cannot
refute.  Why should I give my enemies satisfaction by facing them?  I
cannot hope for justice either at their hands in a court of law or of
the people themselves, on account of the widespread intrigue to secure
my downfall.  It is therefore best to turn my back upon them in
contempt, and bid you, my beloved child, farewell."

And as his thin, unsteady hand penned those final words in Italian, the
hot tears dropped, blurring the writing and blistering the paper--the
tears of a man bidding adieu to the one he most cherished--nay, to life.

Having folded the paper and addressed the envelope with the simple
words, "To my daughter Mary," he took from his finger a curious old
Etruscan ring he wore, an ornament that had been found years ago during
the excavations of the amphitheatre at Fiesole, and imprinting a kiss
upon it, enclosed it in the envelope for her.

Then he glanced anxiously at his watch.  Soon the dread news would be
spoken into his ear.  He sighed again, his face white and hard set, his
pale lips trembling.

He leaned back in his padded chair, and all the past came before him in
rapid review.  Now he saw clearly how Angelo Borselli had, through all
those years, been his cringing underling and for what object.  The
cunning Under-Secretary had squeezed secret commissions out of everyone
for their mutual pecuniary benefit, yet at the same time he was always
careful to incriminate the man whose position he was so cleverly
scheming to occupy.

Mary had never liked him.  A dozen times had she openly expressed her
suspicion and distrust.  But he had been blind--blind to everything.  He
was a man with, few vices himself, and never recognised them in others.
Had his wife enjoyed good health she would nowadays have been his
helpmate.  But, unfortunately, owing to a carriage accident at Vichy
five years before, her nerves were unstrung, and she was nearly always
under medical treatment.

But there were mysteries connected with the curious conspiracy that had
arisen against him--mysteries which he could not solve.

Had he acted rightly in suggesting to Mary that she should marry Jules
Dubard?  That point sorely troubled him.  Ricci's words over the
telephone caused him to reflect deeply.  His devotion to his daughter
was complete, and he had suggested marriage with that man because he was
an honourable gentleman of means, and had, during their acquaintance,
rendered him certain valuable services in Paris.  He looked upon Dubard
as a friend of the family, and therefore had been much gratified when he
had asked for Mary's hand.  Now, however, in those moments of despair as
he reviewed the past, he recollected his daughter's calm dignity when he
had approached the subject, and how she had accepted the man with an
inert disregard, as though she had only done so to obey his wish.

And this man was in active association with his bitterest enemy!

He remembered how at Orton, when the pair had met beneath his roof, they
had betrayed no desire for each other's company.  Indeed, Borselli had
dropped a plain hint that Dubard's presence was unwelcome.  And yet at
the moment of the crisis they had become warm friends!

Was it possible that the man who only a few days before had asked for
Mary as his wife could actually be plotting against him in secret?  The
idea seemed too absurd, and he dismissed it.  Dubard had already shown
himself as his friend, and with that open generosity that had caused his
downfall, he declined to prejudge him until he received absolute proof.
He was shrewd and far-seeing concerning affairs of state, but to his own
interests he was often utterly indifferent.

He rose again, and for half an hour he paced up and down the marble
floor of the long darkened room.  The carriage-bells sounded outside,
and as the noise of wheels died away he knew that his wife and the girls
had gone out visiting.

"Mary!  Mary!" he cried aloud to himself.  "Have I done right?  If not,
forgive me!"

Of a sudden he thought of what Vito had told him in the club on the
previous day regarding the startling allegation that his daughter had
furnished information to the man now degraded and imprisoned as a
traitor.  Why had she begged for his release?  That very fact in itself
went far to prove that the allegation had some foundation in fact.  He
saw how his enemies, not content with attacking him, intended to
denounce her as a traitress.

She had declared that Felice Solaro was innocent.  Yet if his last
decree as Minister of War was one of clemency, releasing the accused
man, his action would surely be misconstrued into one of connivance at
the betrayal of the secrets of that high-up Alpine fortress.

Was Solaro really guilty after all?  At times he was convinced of it,
because the proofs had been so plain, and the evidence of that young
woman Nodari had been borne out by witnesses.  Sometimes, however, he
doubted.  And if there was doubt, should not the accused be given the
benefit of it?  Ought not his last act to be one of fearless clemency?

Slowly he walked to the window and then back again.

"Yes.  He shall have the benefit of the doubt," he murmured,
recollecting how the man had defiantly broken his sword before him.  "It
shall not be said that Camillo Morini did an injustice even to shield
himself.  My enemies will regard my action as proof of my guilt, and
they are welcome to do so," he added in a blank, hoarse voice.  "My last
action shall at least be one of justice."

And reseating himself at his table, he took out a big sheet of official
paper, upon which he wrote--

  "It is hereby ordered that Felice Solaro, ex-captain of the 6th Alpine
  Regiment, convicted of treason, degraded, dismissed from the army of
  Italy, and imprisoned at the military prison of Turin, shall be
  immediately released and reinstated in his former rank, with pay to
  date from his arrest, as he is found not guilty of the false charges
  brought against him.

  "The governor of the military prison at Turin and General Arturo
  Valentini commanding the forces on the Alpine frontier are ordered to
  execute this decree given under my hand this first day of October in
  the year one thousand nine hundred and one."

Then, beneath, he signed that name that was magical with everything
concerning the defences of Italy: "Camillo Morini, Il Ministro della
Guerra," after which he placed the document in an envelope and directed
it to the prison governor.

He drew a deep breath.  At risk of being branded as one who sold Italy's
secrets to the French War Office, he had extended to the accused man a
clemency which he might not deserve.  Nevertheless, he felt convinced
that he had acted with justice, and hoped that after all his enemies
would not denounce Mary as Solaro's accomplice.

The allegation was, to him, a mystery.  It was true that she had met the
good-looking young captain in society, for he recollected perfectly well
how, about eighteen months before, at a ball given by the Princess
Capellari in Rome, he had noticed them dancing together.  But Mary,
being a great favourite, was much sought after by her male
acquaintances, and he had never regarded the young Alpine captain as
anything more than her mere acquaintance.

He, however, could not disguise from himself the fact that she had had
access to those carefully guarded papers which constituted the complete
scheme by which the millions of Italy's armed men were to be mobilised
in case of war.  In order to preserve greater secrecy, he had employed
her in his study in the palace in Rome to copy certain portions of the
secret scheme relative to the army of the north--portions which it was
necessary to place in the hands of the general commanding in case of
necessity.  He preferred her assistance in this rather than to employ
one of the secretaries, for his confidence in her was complete.  It was
therefore amazing that this should actually be known to those who were
seeking his ruin.  They charged her with gaining knowledge of the whole
scheme--which, indeed, she might easily have done--and with having
afterwards handed a copy of it to Felice Solaro.

Such an imputation upon his daughter's honour was infamous.  That was
Italy's reward for all he had done for her!

He glanced at his watch again, and saw that it was already five o'clock,
the fatal hour when that thin-faced adventurer, Paolo Montebruno--an
advocate, of course, as well as a Socialist deputy--was to rise and
launch his bombshell into the Chamber!

He held his breath, and as he sat staring before him fixedly in
desperation and despair, he pictured to himself the scene at
Montecitorio at that moment.  He knew well that huge, semicircular
Camera, and he had often sat listening to Montebruno shrieking in that
quick, impetuous, high-pitched voice which inflamed the members of his
wild-haired party.  Yes! he knew well what hard invectives he would use
when, as the mouthpiece of Angelo Borselli, he poured forth his terrible
charges against the Minister of War.

In that silent room, now darker as the sun declined, the man whose doom
was sealed conjured up to himself the staggering sensation which would
be caused by those allegations that he, the trusted adviser of his
sovereign, had foully betrayed his country.  Already he was speaking,
without doubt, and already the wires were flashing the astounding
charges to every corner of Italy.  In a few brief hours those
irresponsible journals inspired and subsidised by Borselli would be full
of the sensation, screaming that Italy had been betrayed, and demanding
a prosecution.

He knew, from what Ricci had told him, that the charges could not fail
to set all Italy aflame.  The plot against him had been too cleverly
prepared.  The hour had passed.  The Camera were already staggered at
the magnitude and seriousness of the charges.  He was already hounded
down as a thief and a traitor.

His nervous hand went to his vest-pocket, and drawing forth the small
glass tube, he gazed upon it with a bitter smile of satisfaction.

Of a sudden the telephone bell rang sharply behind him, causing him to
start.  The voice from across those high misty mountains would speak his
doom.

For a few moments the despairing man sat motionless, bent forward upon
the table staring at the tube, then rising slowly, he staggered across
to the instrument, took the receiver in his trembling fingers, and
mechanically placed it to his ear.

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE.

THE PLOT.

On that same hot afternoon, while His Excellency was pacing the library
in the high-up old villa in the Apennines, Dubard alighted from a cab in
the Via Salaria, in Rome, and entered a fine modern mansion, the home of
Angelo Borselli, Under-Secretary for War.  He was conducted to a small
sitting-room, where, in the dim light of the closed sun-shutters, the
arch-schemer was taking his siesta in a long wicker lounge-chair, half
dozing, and yet revolving within his brain every detail of his ingenious
plan to oust the Minister from office and to replace him.

"Why, my dear Jules!" he cried in surprise as the young Frenchman
entered.  "I thought you had gone up to San Donato in order to be near
your charmer when the blow fell."

"No," responded Dubard in a rather hard voice.  "I am still here--in
Rome."  Then after a brief pause he looked the sallow man straight in
the face and added, "The question must not be asked in the Chamber.  The
blow must not be struck--do you understand?"

"What do you mean?" cried Borselli, starting to his feet.  "What has
happened?  I see by your face that something has occurred."

"It has," was the other's answer.  "Montebruno must be stopped."

"Why?"

"Because to seek to overthrow Morini at this moment is against our
interests."

"Oh!" laughed the other.  "So you have just discovered that fact, have
you?  It is against your interest, of course, because you intend to
marry his daughter; but not against mine."

"I tell you that no revelation must be attempted," said Dubard firmly.

"But why do you say this?  What is there to prevent the question being
put and the Ministry criticised?"

"It is unwise.  It would be a serious blunder on your part."

"And yet you have assisted me!  My dear Jules, I don't really understand
you!  Do you not recollect what we arranged in London when our
reconciliation took place?  Have you forgotten what we agreed only the
day before yesterday?"

"I have forgotten nothing.  I only speak plainly, and say that by making
the revelations at the present moment you will imperil your own
position."

"No.  I shall become Minister on Morini's downfall.  All is arranged.  I
am not the man to pick the chestnuts out of the fire for others--you
surely know that?"

"But will you not be incriminated in the matter of certain secret
commissions?  Did you not rather unfortunately arrange matters and act
as the go-between?"

"Of course.  But I shall be careful enough that my own interest in the
matter does not appear.  The Minister of Justice is no friend of
Morini," he added, with a grin upon his thin, hard features.

"Montebruno must be stopped," declared Dubard determinedly after a
pause.  "Let us telephone to him to come here."

"He is already down at the Camera," said the Under-Secretary, glancing
at the little French timepiece on the mantelshelf.  "The question is to
be put at five, and it is already half-past four."

"But it shall not be put!" cried the young man.

"Who will prevent it?" inquired Borselli, looking at him defiantly.

"I will," he said sternly.  "Let us be quite plain and outspoken, my
dear Angelo.  I tell you that you shall not imperil the future by this
premature action.  Morini knows of the conspiracy against him, and is
prepared."

"Well--and if he is?  What then?"

"He may seek to defend himself in a manner of which you little dream."

Borselli regarded his companion suspiciously, for he saw that he was in
possession of some information which he was keeping to himself.

"You know something," he said, fixing his dark eyes upon Dubard.  "What
is it?"

"I only know that it would be most injudicious to make any revelations,
or to stir up the public indignation at the present moment," was the
response.  "There is no time to lose.  You must telephone at once to
Montebruno and stop him."

"Impossible.  The whole matter is arranged.  All the Socialist deputies
are in their places awaiting the bolt to be launched."

"Then let them wait.  It shall not be launched to-day," replied Dubard
in a clear, distinct voice.

"But it shall?" exclaimed Borselli.  "It has taken me nearly three years
to complete preparations for this _coup_, and I do not intend to abandon
it merely because you hint mysteriously that it is premature.  I speak
quite candidly upon this point."

"And I speak equally candidly when I tell you that Montebruno must not
put the question to the Chamber.  There are reasons--serious reasons."

He said nothing of his compact with Mary or of his demand of His
Excellency for her hand.

"And what are they, pray?"

"Well,"--and he hesitated.  "Well, if the _coup_ is made at the present
moment you will merely imperil yourself, that is all I can say.  Morini
will retaliate, and charge you with certain things which will place you
in a very awkward position."

A silence fell between the two men.  Borselli was reflecting upon a
certain agreement at which they had arrived when in London.

"I really can't understand you, Jules," he exclaimed at last.  "You have
rendered us the most valuable assistance until the present moment, and
now, when all is prepared, you suddenly withdraw and make mysterious
hints that our efforts may result in serious consequences.  What do you
mean?"

"I mean that the revelations are premature."

"But tell me the truth, once and for all.  Are you still on our side, or
has the girl's beauty appealed to you, and you now intend to save her
father?  I know what a soft, impressionable heart you have--like all
your race."

"I am still united with you," the Frenchman declared quickly.  "It is
because of that I give you warning."  Borselli's dark eyes were fixed
upon the other's with a look of quick shrewdness.  He was a man whose
mind, when once made up, was not easily turned from its purpose.

"And your warning I shall certainly not heed," he said slowly.  "You
know my intentions, and I shall carry them out to-day to the letter."

"You shall not?" the other exclaimed defiantly.

"Oh! and who will prevent it?" asked the Under-Secretary.

"I will.  You shall not seek your own ruin blindly like this!"

Dubard very cleverly endeavoured to convince his companion of his own
interest in the conspiracy against Morini, while Borselli, of course,
had no knowledge of his compact with Mary.  Nevertheless, he saw plainly
that the Frenchman's sudden withdrawal from the affair was due to some
hidden motive, and he refused to be turned from his object.  To him the
overthrow of Morini meant wealth and power, and he had no intention of
relinquishing his efforts just at the moment when the reins of office
were within his grasp.  All was prepared.  The revelations were to be
made, and charges of misappropriation and treason hurled at the
unfortunate Minister; charges which would, on the morrow, be taken up by
the subsidised Press and exaggerated and distorted into a public scandal
which no statesman, however popular, could withstand.  The plot had cost
him three years of clever scheming, during which time he had acted as
Morini's humble underling, expressing profound thanks for any small
benefits, but secretly hating and despising him, and yet always seeking
to worm himself further into his confidence.  And Dubard wished him to
abandon it all at the very hour when success was assured!  No.  He
flatly refused.  And he told his companion so in plain, forcible
language.

The other, however, merely shrugged his narrow shoulders and was silent,
allowing the Under-Secretary to upbraid him without offering a word in
self-defence.  Then, when Borselli paused to gain breath, he said--

"I merely repeat what I have said--the question must not be put."

"I say it shall be put?" cried the other fiercely.

Dubard was silent again and quite cool, only the slight flush upon his
high cheeks told that a fierce anger consumed him.

"If it is put, it will be at your own risk," he exclaimed at last,
placing his forefinger on the table to emphasise his words.  "Remember
there are many who would gloat over the downfall of Angelo Borselli."

"And there are more who would like to see me Minister of War."

"You will never obtain office if you carry out the scheme you have
arranged," Dubard declared.  "I think up to the present I have shown
myself your friend, for without me you surely could not have done what
you have.  You have many times admitted that.  Why, therefore, do you
not take my advice?"

"Because, my dear Jules, you have suddenly turned round and are now
championing Morini."

"No, you mistake me.  I am merely warning you in our mutual interests.
Morini will retaliate--and if he does--!"  And again he shrugged his
shoulders significantly.

"Well, and if he does?  What can he do?"

"He can make some ugly revelations, you know."

"I have no fear of anything he may allege," laughed the other.  "He
cannot establish his innocence."

"Then you will not listen to reason and postpone the public sensation
you have arranged for this afternoon?"

"No," replied Angelo.  "I will not."

"Then, if you intend to imperil both of us by acting so injudiciously,
I, for one, do not intend to suffer."

"What do you mean?"

"Simply this.  If you are determined not to interfere, and to allow the
question to be put and the stream of allegations to pour forth from the
Socialists, I shall, in order to save myself, place myself on the side
of Morini."

"Of course, my dear Jules.  You are always on the side which pays you
best," sneered the other.

"And in your company," remarked the Frenchman quite coolly, adding in a
firm voice, "I wish you to give me a line to Montebruno now, this
moment, and I will take it to him in the Camera--a word to him to
postpone the question."

"I shall do nothing of the sort.  I do not intend to sacrifice my future
because of your sentimentalities.  You are defending Morini."

"Yes," he cried.  "I will defend him!  I tell you again, and very
clearly, that if Montebruno speaks in the Camera to-day you will be
relieved of office."

"Oh, how's that?"

"I am speaking plainly," Dubard said, with knit brows.

"Time does not admit of more words, otherwise Montebruno will rise and
put the question.  I therefore tell you that if you do not give me the
letter I require at once, I shall make a clean breast of the whole
affair."  And he glanced at his watch as he spoke.

"You!" gasped Borselli quickly, staring at the speaker.  "Ah yes!  I was
a fool to have trusted you after all.  I recognised it when too late.
You have turned in Morini's favour."

"I have my own interests to serve as well as yours," Dubard remarked
quite frankly.  "It is to my interest that the question is postponed."

"And it is to mine that it should be put."

"But you will not allow Montebruno to proceed, and risk your own
position.  Remember that in this affair my interests at the moment are
not the same as yours."

"And you actually declare that you will tell the truth if Montebruno
speaks?" said Borselli hoarsely, realising how completely the man before
him held his future in his hands.

"I do," was the response.  "You surely know me well enough!  In such
moments as these I do not trifle.  Give me the letter!  It is already a
quarter to five, and I have only just time to drive to the Camera and
place it in Montebruno's hand."

"But I can't understand your motive," exclaimed Borselli, realising that
his companion meant what he said.  "Remember what we agreed that night
in London."

"Perfectly.  While our interests are similar, I am your friend; but
where they divide, I am friend of myself alone.  Come, Angelo, we cannot
afford to waste further words--the letter, just two lines, or exposure
of the truth.  The latter would, I think," he laughed, "be even a
greater sensation to the public than the allegations against the
Minister."

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR.

IN THE CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES.

The man who had laid such an elaborate plot against His Excellency stood
hesitating and confounded.  He had never dreamed that Dubard, upon whom
he had relied so implicitly, would be seized with this sudden caprice to
defend Morini.  Mary might have persuaded him to adopt this course, he
reflected, yet he knew Jules too well as a man in whose heart there did
not exist a single spark of either respect or true affection for the
opposite sex.

"Come," exclaimed the elegant Frenchman, with a look of determination on
his pallid countenance.  "Write the note quickly, or it will be too
late.  Recollect, if Montebruno speaks, I shall tell the truth."

"And betray me?"

"Of necessity."

Then Angelo Borselli, seeing that all his elaborate preparations for a
_coup_ were checkmated by the very man who had rendered him such
valuable help, threw himself into a chair, and muttering some hard
words, scribbled three lines to the man, his puppet, who was to hurl
those terrible charges against the Minister of War.

"Good," exclaimed Dubard airily, as he took the letter and thrust it
into his pocket.  "You have done well to save your own reputation, my
dear Angelo.  It would not be wise for the public to know everything,
would it?  Excuse me running away so quickly, but I have only just time
to drive down to the Camera."  And snatching up his hat he rushed out,
leaving the Under-Secretary standing in the centre of the room, silent
in disappointment and chagrin.

Meanwhile, in the Chamber the excitement among the Socialist group had
gradually increased as the hands of the big clock moved on towards the
hour of five.  They watched Montebruno seated in his place armed with
many formidable documents, and saw how he was preparing himself for one
of those oratorical efforts for which he was so famous.  He was a thin,
black-bearded man with small dark eyes and aquiline features--a man who
had made the law a stepping-stone to politics like so many of his
_confreres_.  Time after time he fidgeted, changed his position, stroked
his beard thoughtfully, and re-examined his papers, every action being
watched anxiously by his party, among whom it was whispered that he was
to put some sensational question--but of what character was to them a
mystery.

The hand of the big clock pointed to the hour of five, and the Chamber
was occupied with other business.  Vito Ricci, sitting in his place
almost opposite Montebruno in the great horseshoe chamber, waited
breathlessly, well knowing that the words which would fall from his lips
would seal the doom of that man waiting so patiently in his library in
the far-off Apennines.

The tension of those moments of expectancy was terrible.

The clock marked five, ten, fifteen minutes past the hour, when, of a
sudden, the voluble Socialist rose, and began by expressing regret at
being compelled to take up the time of the Chamber upon a most important
and very pressing matter.  He had just arrived at that point, holding
the whole Camera in attention by his clever oratory, when a prominent
member of his own party pulled his coat-tails and handed him a letter.
This he tore open mechanically while still speaking, but on glancing at
the contents, he hesitated and stopped short in utter confusion.

"Go on!  Go on!" urged his party wildly, eager to hear what allegations
he was about to make against the Government.

But regaining his self-possession in a moment, he turned to them, and
with a smile said--

"Gentlemen, I have just learned, and very fortunately perhaps, that I
have been somewhat misinformed regarding certain matters to which I
intended directing the attention of the Camera, and therefore I will no
longer occupy your time."

And he sat down abruptly, whereat those in opposition jeered at him, and
even the Socialists themselves rose and went out in disgust,
disappointed at relinquishing what was promised to be a staggering blow
against the Government.  With them went Vito Ricci, who, ten minutes
later, was in the Ministry of War describing the curious scene to
Camillo Morini over the telephone.

The words he spoke put fresh life and hope into the despairing Minister.
He breathed again when he heard how he had been saved almost by a
miracle.  Then he walked to his table, and the letters he had written he
carried to the fireplace and there lit them with a wax vesta and watched
them consume--all save the order for Solaro's release and reinstatement.

He held the latter in his hand for a long time thinking deeply.  But at
last the temptation grew too strong within him, for slowly, and with
seeming reluctance, he opened it, applied a match, destroying it as he
had done the others, and as he watched it burn to black tinder he
murmured to himself--

"No!  I dare not release him.  If I did they might suspect--suspect.
And yet Mary declares that he is innocent!  What, I wonder, can she
know?"

New life had been created within him, new hope, new aspirations.  A
moment before he had looked upon that tiny tube with its fatal tabloids
as the only means by which he could escape his enemies, but now he
laughed to himself as he placed it in a drawer of the writing-table--
laughed at his own cowardice.

He never dreamed that he had been saved by Mary's self-sacrifice.  The
incident, as related by Ricci over the telephone, was curious and
mysterious.  The letter handed to the man who had risen to denounce him
had evidently contained something which prevented him making the
charges, but what it was he could not imagine.

To him the whole affair was a complete mystery, which he left to Vito
Ricci to unravel and report.

When his wife and the girls returned, they found him idling on the
terrace beneath the pretty arbour from which spread that glorious view
of the Arno valley up to Florence.  He was a changed man from an hour
before--that hour when he had come face to face with ruin and death.  By
the mysterious turn which events had taken a new life had suddenly
opened to him.  The blow they intended to aim at him had apparently been
abandoned, even though all preparations had been made.  The reason was
an utter enigma.

He laughed merrily with Mary and the English girls as they came along
the terrace where he was sitting idly smoking a cigar, inquiring where
they had been and how they had found the lady they had visited.

All three began to chatter, as was their wont, while Her Excellency,
fatigued after the drive, entered the house to rest before dinner.  She,
however, did not fail to notice her husband's unusual good-humour, for
of late he had been thoughtful and depressed, silent and moody when in
her presence, and apparently full of serious state affairs.

The instant Mary saw her father's countenance she read the truth.  She
had left the villa well knowing--through Dubard, who had sent her word
in secret--that the blow was to be dealt that afternoon.  She knew all
that her father was suffering, and she feared the worst, even though she
had made that compact with the man she suspected and despised.  She had
dreaded to return lest some hideous tragedy should have occurred, and
all the time she was absent she had reproached herself that she had not
remained at his side to support and encourage him in face of the
threatened peril.

But the danger was over.  He had no doubt received word over the
telephone, for he was his own old self again, and began chaffing Violet
Walters, the blue-eyed daughter of the London barrister, regarding a
young lieutenant of the _bersaglieri_, an aristocrat of Florence, who
had dined with them on the previous evening, and towards whom she had
been very much attracted.

"It is really too bad!" declared the English girl, blushing to her eyes.
"You declare that I'm in love with every good-looking man, and I'm sure
I'm not."

"We Italians always find English girls very charming," His Excellency
said, smiling.  "That is why I married an Englishwoman myself," whereat
the two Fry girls, pale-faced and insipid, tittered to themselves.

"Really it was most disgraceful of Violet to flirt with young Capponi as
she did last night!" exclaimed Mary mischievously, upholding her
father's view.

"I did not!" protested the barrister's daughter.  "You know I didn't,
Mary!"

"He'll be proposing next Monday when he comes again to dinner, and
you'll be the Marchesa Capponi," Mary said, spreading out her skirts and
bowing with mock obeisance.

Her father, full of good-humour now that the terror of those anxious
hours had passed, rose, and placing his hand kindly on Violet's
shoulder, assured her that his words were not meant to be taken
seriously; for he saw the girl's indignation was rising, and that she
resented being accused of flirtation before the two daughters of the
Genoese merchant.

They all gossiped together for some time, until presently Mary went
forth, as usual, to accompany her father on his evening stroll through
the pine woods.

When alone, His Excellency was the first to speak, explaining to her all
that Vito Ricci had related over the telephone.

"Then the crisis is prevented," she remarked, in a strange, mechanical
voice, he thought.  He had expected her to betray surprise and joy, but,
on the contrary, she received the information of his escape with an
inertness which surprised him.  "It must have been the letter handed to
the Socialist deputy," she added.

"Without doubt," he remarked.  "But how annoyed and disappointed Angelo
must be at the failure of his scheme just at the very moment when his
triumph was assured."

"I expect so," his daughter said, walking slowly at his side, her eyes
fixed upon the ground.  Her father had been saved at the cost of her own
happiness, her own life.  But would that man adhere to his compact? she
wondered.  Was the crisis only postponed until after her marriage--until
after she had given herself to him in exchange for her father's life?
She knew too well that he would never face exposure; she knew, alas!
that, like many before him, he would rather take his own life than bear
the brunt of those scurrilous and unscrupulous attacks.  He had more
than once told her so--not directly, of course, but in language that was
unmistakable.

She had had no confidence in Dubard since the night when he had examined
the safe in the library.  He would, she felt assured, play her false.
His ingenuity was unparalleled, and he was, moreover, a friend of her
father's bitterest enemy.  Therefore, what had she to hope from him?
The attack upon the Minister and his methods was only postponed in order
to lure her and her father into a sense of security.  What was to
prevent the allegation being made after she had given herself to him in
marriage?  As she walked there in the evening light beneath the high
dark pines she fully realised the insecurity of the position.  In the
end the man Borselli must triumph, and she, with her father, would be
equally a victim.

What her father had told her of the incident in the Chamber that
afternoon revealed the truth.  Dubard had, by his clever scheming,
succeeded in postponing the blow until after she had become his wife.
She knew well his intimate friendship with Angelo Borselli, and felt
assured that it was in the interests of the Under-Secretary that he had
opened that safe which His Excellency had believed to be closed so
effectively to everyone.

"You will seek to retaliate, will you not?" she asked her father
suddenly.  "You will surely not allow Borselli another opportunity of
conspiring against you!  He should be removed from office upon some
pretext or other."

Her father smiled at her words, and replied--

"It would be easy to retaliate, my dear, but it would be unwise."

"Why?  If he remains in office, he may to-morrow, or on some occasion
when you least expect it, level a blow that might crush you?"

"I know!  I know!" he groaned.  "I am not safe by any means.  Until Vito
discovers what has really occurred I must remain patiently inactive."

"But why not remove Borselli from office?  You could surely do that!  It
is your duty to yourself to do so!"

"Ah!  You do not know everything, Mary," answered her father very
gravely.  "To attempt his dismissal at the present moment would be a
most injudicious course.  By making charges against him I should also
implicate myself.  If I spoke a single word to his detriment, it would
be suicidal.  I should be seeking my own downfall."

"Then, to speak plainly, you are unable to dismiss him?" she said in a
low, distinct voice, looking her father straight in the face with a
glance of reproach.  "You are entirely in that man's hands?"

His Excellency, grave and thoughtful again, nodded in the affirmative,
sighed heavily, and then admitted--

"You know the truth, my dear.  My secrets are, unfortunately, his?"

And she echoed his sigh with her white lips compressed.  She foresaw,
alas! that for her there was no hope of escape from that hideous compact
she had been compelled to make.  She had given herself as the price of
her father's honour, the price of his very life, to a man whom she could
neither trust nor love--a man who, when it suited his own interests,
would break his bond without the slightest compunction, and allow the
crushing blow to fall upon her house--a blow that must be fatal to her
beloved father, who stood there so grave and thoughtful at her side.

She contemplated the future, but saw in it only a grey, limitless sea of
blank despair.

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE.

BILLY GRENFELL IS PHILOSOPHIC.

"Then we must break up the home, I suppose?"

"I suppose so, Billy, much as I regret it.  But a fellow has to take
advantage of the main chance in his life, you know, and this is mine?"
declared George Macbean, leaning back in his padded chair at the
breakfast-table in their high-up old room in Fig Tree Court, Temple.

"I should think so!  An appointment in the Italian Ministry of War at
such a salary isn't an offer that comes to every man, and you'd be a
fool if you didn't accept it.  You must have some high official friend
whom you've never told me about--eh?"  And William Grenfell,
barrister-at-law, known as "Billy" to his intimates, with whom Macbean
shared chambers, took up his friend's letter and re-read it, asking,
"What's the signature?  These foreigners sign their names in such an
abominable manner that nobody can ever read them."

"Angelo Borselli, the Under-Secretary.  I met him in the summer, while I
was staying with my uncle near Rugby."

"And he offers you a billet like this?  By Jove, you're lucky!"  And the
big, burly, clean-shaven fellow of about thirty-five, one of the
ever-increasing briefless brigade, rose and looked out across the quiet
courtyard.  "You'll throw over that pompous ass Morgan-Mason, won't you?
I wonder how you stood the cad so long."

"Necessity, my dear fellow.  It has been writing letters for
Morgan-Mason or starve--I preferred the former," remarked Macbean, with
a smile.

The old panelled sitting-room, with its well-filled bookcase, its
pipe-rack, its threadbare carpet, and its greasy, leather-covered
chairs, worn but comfortable, differed but little from any other
chambers in that old-world colony of bachelors.  Macbean and Grenfell
had had diggings together and employed the same laundress for the past
three years, the former spruce and smart, mixing with the West End world
in which his employer moved, while the latter was a thorough-going
Bohemian, eccentric in many ways, unsuccessful, yet nevertheless a man
brimming over with cleverness.  They had been fast friends ten years
before, and when opportunity had offered to share chambers they had
eagerly embraced it.

Billy never had a brief.  He idled in the Courts with a dummy brief
before him in order to impress the public, but his slender income was
mostly derived from contributions to certain critical reviews, who took
his "stuff" and paid him badly for it.

George Macbean, though he could so ill afford it, bore the major portion
of the expenses of their small household, for he knew well the little
reverses of fortune that had been Billy's, and what a good, generous
fellow he really was at heart.

Through those three years they had lived together no wry word had ever
arisen between them, but this letter which Macbean had received caused
them both to ponder.

Grenfell was a man of even temper and full of good-humour.  He bubbled
over with high spirits, even in the face of actual adversity, while over
at the Courts he was recognised as a wit of no mean order.  But thought
of the breaking up of their little home and their separation filled him
with deepest regret.

Macbean realised all that his friend felt, and said simply--

"I'm very sorry to go, Billy.  You know that.  But what can I do?  I
must escape my present soul-killing drudgery.  You don't know of half
the insults I've had to swallow from Morgan-Mason because I happen to be
the son of a gentleman."

"I know, old chap; I know well.  Of course you must accept this
appointment," said the other in a tone of quiet sadness.  "I can shift
for myself--or at least I hope so."

"To leave you is the only regret I have in leaving England, Billy,"
declared Macbean, taking his friend's hand and grasping it firmly.

But the big fellow, with his eyes fixed before him across the square,
remained sad and silent.

The letter had come to George as a complete surprise, reviving within
his mind pleasant memories of Orton, of the Minister Morini who had
lived incognito, of Borselli, and of Mary most of all.  He would, if he
accepted, meet them again, and become on friendly terms with the most
powerful men in Italy.  The offer seemed almost too good to be real.
Had it been the first of April he would have suspected fooling.  But he
read the big official letter headed "Under-Secretary for War--Rome"
offering him the appointment, and saw that no fraud had been attempted.

Both men filled their pipes mechanically, lit them from the same match,
as was their habit, and smoked in silence.  Both were too full of regret
for mere words.  They understood each other, and neither was surprised
at the other's heavy thought.  Their friendship had been a very close
and pleasant one, but in future their lives lay apart.  Grenfell
regarded it philosophically with a little smile, as was his wont
whenever things went wrong with him, while Macbean pondered deeply as to
what the future had in store for him.

Before his eyes rose a vision of a lithe and dainty figure in a white
dress on the tennis-lawn at Orton, that woman who was so delightfully
cosmopolitan, with the slight roll of the r's when she spoke that
betrayed her foreign birth--the woman whom rumour had engaged to the
young French count upon whom the honest village folk looked with
considerable suspicion.

"You'll be glad to leave the service of that hog-merchant," Billy
remarked at last, for want of something better to say, "and I
congratulate you upon your escape from him.  What you've told me in the
past is sufficient to show that he only regards you as a kind of
superior valet.  Had I been you I should have kicked the fellow long
ago."

"The pauper may not kick the millionaire, my dear old chap," said
Macbean, smiling,--"or at least, if he does he kicks against the
pricks."

"I can't make out how some men get on," remarked Grenfell between the
whiffs of his huge pipe.  "Why, it seems only the other day that
Morgan-Mason had a shop in the Brompton Road, and used to make big
splashes with advertisements in the cheap papers.  I remember my people
used to buy their butter there.  An editor I know used to laugh over the
puff paragraphs he sent out about himself.  He's made his money and
become a great man all in ten years or so."

"My dear Billy, money makes money," remarked his friend, with a dry
laugh.  "Society worships wealth nowadays.  Such men as Morgan-Mason
have coarsened and cheapened the very _entourage_ of Court and State.
Let the moneyed creature be ever so vulgar, so illiterate, so vicious,
it matters naught.  Money-bags are the sole credentials necessary to
gain admission to the most exclusive of houses, the House, even to
Buckingham Palace itself.  Men like Morgan-Mason smile at the poverty of
the peerage, and with their wealth buy up heritage, title, and
acceptance.  The borrower is always servant to the lender, and hence our
friend has many obsequious servants in what people call smart society."

"And more's the pity!  Society must be rotten!" declared Billy
emphatically.  "I don't know what we're coming to nowadays.  I should
think that the post of secretary to such an arrant cad must be about the
worst office a gentleman can hold.  I'd rather earn half-crowns writing
paragraphs for the evening papers myself."

"Yes," Macbean admitted, with a sigh, "I shall be very glad to leave his
service.  I only regret on your account."

"Oh, don't mind me.  I'm a failure, dear boy, like lots of others!"
Grenfell declared.  "There are dozens in the Temple like myself,
chronically hard up and without prospect of success.  I congratulate you
with all my heart upon your stroke of good fortune.  You've waited long
enough for your chance, and it has now come to you just when you least
expected it.  Death and fortune always come unexpectedly: to all of us
the former, and to a few of us the latter.  But," he added, "this
Italian politician--Bore-something--must have taken a violent fancy to
you."

"On the contrary, I only met him once or twice," responded Macbean.
"That's what puzzles me.  I don't see what object he has in offering me
the appointment."

"I do.  They want an English secretary who knows Italian well.  You'll
just fill the post.  Foreign Governments make no mistakes in the men
they choose, depend upon it.  They don't put Jacks-in-office like we do.
Didn't you tell me once that you met the Italian Minister of War?
Perhaps he had a hand in your appointment."

"Possibly so," Macbean admitted, recollecting that well-remembered day
when he had greeted His Excellency on the lawn at Orton and the
statesman had at once recognised him.

"Well, however it has been arranged, it is a jolly good lift for you,
old man," declared Billy, smoking vigorously.  "You should take a leaf
out of Morgan-Mason's book, and use everyone, even the most vulgar of
moneyed plutocrats and the most hide-bound of bureaucrats, for your own
advantage.  If you do, you'll get on in the world.  It's the only way
nowadays, depend upon it.  New men, new methods.  All the old traditions
of life, all the dignity and delicacy and pride of birth, have gone by
the board in these days of brainy smartness and pushful go.  Life's book
to-day, old fellow, is full of disgraced and blotted leaves."

George sighed.  He was used to Billy's plainly expressed philosophy.
His criticisms were always full of a grim humour, and he was never tired
of denouncing the degenerates of the present in comparison with bygone
days.  He was a Bohemian, and prided himself on that fact.  He
entertained a most supreme and withering contempt for modern
place-hunters and for the many wind-bags in his own profession who got
on because of their family influence or by the fortunate circumstance of
being in a celebrated case.  He declared always that no man at the bar
came forward by sheer merit nowadays, and that all depended upon either
luck or influence.  Not, however, that he ever begrudged a man his
success.  On the contrary, he liked to see the advancement of his
friends, and even though downhearted and filled with poignant regret at
being compelled to part with George Macbean, yet he honestly wished him
all the good fortune a true friend could wish.

Mrs Bridges, the shuffling old laundress, whose chief weakness was "a
drop o' something," who constantly spoke of her "poor husband," and
whose tears were ever flowing, cleared away the remains of their
breakfast, and the two men spent the whole morning together smoking and
contemplating the future.

"I suppose they'll put you into a gorgeous uniform and a sword when you
get to Rome," laughed Grenfell presently.  "You'll send me a photo,
won't you?"  And his big face beamed with good-humour.

"Secretaries don't wear uniforms," was the other's response.

"No, but you'll soon rise to be something else," the barrister assured
him.  "A fellow isn't singled out by a foreign Government like you are
unless he gets something worth having in a year or two!  They'll
appreciate you more than our friend the provision-dealer has done.  I
shan't forget the way the fellow spoke to me when I called upon you that
morning.  He couldn't have treated a footman worse than you and me.  I
felt like addressing the Court for the defence."

"Well, it's all over now," laughed his friend.  "This evening I shall
give him notice to leave his service, and I admit frankly that I shall
do so with the greatest pleasure."

"I should think so, indeed," Billy remarked.  "And don't forget to tell
him our private opinion of such persons as himself.  He may be
interested to know what a mere man-in-the-street thinks of a moneyed
dealer in butter and bacon.  By Jove! if I only had the chance I should
make a few critical remarks that he would not easily forget."

"I quite believe it!" exclaimed George merrily.  "But now I'm leaving
him we can afford to let bygones be bygones.  I only pity the poor devil
who becomes my successor."

And both men again lapsed into a thoughtful silence, George's mind being
filled with recollections of those warm summer days of tea-drinking and
tennis when he was guest of his uncle, the Reverend Basil Sinclair, at
Thornby.

What, he wondered, could have induced that tall, sallow-faced foreigner,
the Italian Under-Secretary for War, to offer him such a lucrative
appointment?  He had only met him once, for a few moments, when the
Minister's wife had introduced them in an interval of tennis on the lawn
at Orton.

There was a motive in it.  But what it was he could not discern.

CHAPTER TWENTY SIX.

A MILLIONAIRE'S TACTICS.

Mr Morgan-Mason, the Member for South-West Norfolk, sat alone in his
gorgeous gilt and white dining-room with the remains of dessert spread
before him.  A coarse-faced, elderly man with grey side-whiskers, a wide
expanse of glossy shirt-front, and a well-cut dinner coat, he was
twisting his wineglass between his fingers while a smile played about
his lips.  His obese figure, with shoulders slightly rounded, a bull
neck, and gross, flabby features, gave one the impression that he lived
for himself alone, that his life was a selfish, idle one.

His house in town and his place in the country were the typical abodes
of a _nouveau riche_.  His motors, his yacht, and his racehorses were
the very best that money could command, and yet with all his display of
wealth he still carried the tenets of the counting-house into his
private life.  He gave "fifty-guinea-a-head" dinners at the Carlton, it
was true, but his entertainments were not on a large scale.  He lent the
aristocracy money, and allowed them to entertain him in return.  He
considered it an honour to be made use of by the hard-up earl or by the
peeress whose debts at bridge were beyond her means.  A knighthood had
been offered him, but he had politely declined, letting it be distinctly
known to the Prime Minister that nothing less than a peerage would be
acceptable; and this had actually been half promised!  He was the equal,
nay, the superior, of those holders of once-exclusive titles who left
their cards upon him and who shot his grouse; for, as a recent writer
has declared, the god Mammon is to-day gradually drawing into its foetid
embrace all the rank and beauty and nobility that once made England the
glorious land she is.

He had taken a telegram from his pocket, and re-read it--a message from
a woman bearing one of the noblest titles in the English peerage, asking
audaciously for a loan, and inviting him up to her country-house in
Durham, where an exclusive party was being entertained.  He smiled with
gratification, for the sovereign was among her ladyship's guests.

He touched the bell, and in answer the butler entered.  "Tell Macbean to
come here," he ordered, without looking up.  "And give me a liqueur.  I
don't want coffee to-night."

The elderly, grave-faced servant served his master obsequiously, and
noiselessly disappeared.

A few minutes later there came a light rap at the door and George
Macbean entered.

"Just reply to this wire," the millionaire said, handing it to his
secretary.  "Tell her ladyship that I'll leave King's Cross at eleven
to-morrow, and that what she mentions will be all right.  You need not
mention the word loan; she'll understand.  I can't dictate to-night, as
I'm going to the club.  Be here at seven in the morning, and I'll reply
to letters while I'm dressing."

Macbean took the telegram and hesitated.

"Well?  What are you waiting there for?  Haven't you had your dinner--
eh?"

"Yes, I have had my dinner, Mr Morgan-Mason," was the young man's quick
reply, his anger rising.  "I wish to speak a word to you."

"Well, what's the matter?  Work too hard?  If so, you can take a month's
notice and go.  Lots more like you to be got," added the man with the
fat, flabby face.

"The work is not too hard," was Macbean's response, speaking quite
calmly.  "I only wish to say that I intend leaving you, having accepted
a Government appointment."

"A Government appointment?" echoed the millionaire.  "Has Balfour given
you a seat in the Cabinet, or are you going to be a doorkeeper or
something of that sort down at the House?"

"Neither.  My future is my own affair."

"Well, I wish you good luck in it," sneered his employer.  "I'll see
that the next secretary I get isn't a gentleman.  Airs and graces don't
suit me, my boy.  I see too much of 'em in Mayfair.  I prefer the people
of the Mile End Road myself.  I was born there, you know, and I'm proud
of it."

"Shall I send the telegram from the Strand office?" asked Macbean,
disregarding the vulgarian's remarks.  "It is Sunday night, remember."

"Send it from where you like," was the man's reply.  And then, as the
secretary turned to leave, he called him back, saying in a rather more
conciliatory tone--

"You haven't told me what kind of appointment you've accepted.  Whatever
it is, you can thank my influence for it.  They know that I wouldn't
employ a man who isn't up to the mark."

"I thank you for your appreciation," Macbean said, for it was the first
kindly word that he had ever received from the millionaire during all
the time he had been in his service.

"Oh, I don't mean that you are any better than five hundred others in my
employ," the other returned.  "I've got a hundred shop-managers who
would serve me equally well at half the wages I pay you.  I've all along
considered that you don't earn what you get."

"In that case, then, I am very pleased to be able to relieve you of my
services, and to take them where they will be at last appreciated."

"Do you mean to be insolent?"

"I have no such intention," replied Macbean, still quite cool, although
his hands were trembling with suppressed anger.  "The Italian Government
will pay me well for my work, and will not hurl insults at me on every
possible occasion and before every visitor.  I have been your servant,
Mr Morgan-Mason, your very humble servant, but after despatching this
telegram I shall, I am glad to inform you, no longer be yours to
command."

"The Italian Government!" exclaimed the millionaire, utterly surprised.
"In what department are you to be employed?"

"In the Ministry of War."

"What!--in the office of that man we saw regarding the Abyssinian
contracts?--Morini his name was, wasn't it?"

"No.  In the office of the Under-Secretary, Borselli."

"I suppose you made it right with them when I took you with me to Rome--
made good use of your ability to speak the lingo--eh?"

"I had then no intention of entering the Italian service," was his
reply.  "The offer has come to me quite spontaneously."

Morgan-Mason was silent, twisting his glass before him and thinking
deeply.  The name Borselli recalled something--an ugly affair that he
would have fain forgotten.

"I thought you had secured an appointment in one of the English
Government offices," he said at last, with a sudden change of tactics.
"Why go abroad?  Why not remain with me?  I'll give you an increase of
fifty pounds a year.  You know my ways, and I hate strangers about me."

"I much regret that I cannot accept your offer," replied George.  "I
have already accepted the appointment, which is at a salary very
considerably in advance of that you have been paying me."

"But I'll pay you the same as they offer.  You are better off in
England.  How much do they intend to give you?"

"I am too fond of Italy to refuse a chance of going out there," Macbean
replied.  "I spent some years in Pisa in my youth, and have always
longed to return and live in the warmth and sunshine."

A brief silence fell.

Presently, after reflection, the Member of Parliament exclaimed, in a
tone more pleasant than he had ever used before--

"Let me speak candidly, Macbean.  I would first ask you to forget the
words I uttered a few moments ago.  I am full of business, you know, and
am often out of temper with everything.  I was out of temper just now.
Well, you want to leave me and go to Italy, while I desire you to
remain.  Tell me plainly what salary you will accept and continue in my
service."

"I am as perfectly frank as you are," George replied.  "No inducement
you could offer would keep me in England."

Mr Morgan-Mason bit his lip.  He never expected this refusal from the
clever man whom he had treated as an underling.  It was his habit to
purchase any service with his money, and this rebuff on the part of a
mere servant filled him with chagrin--he who so easily bought the smiles
of a duchess or the introduction of a marquis into the royal circle
itself.

He did not intend that Macbean should enter the service of Angelo
Borselli.  He had suspicion--a strong suspicion--and for that reason
desired to keep the pair apart.  His mind was instantly active in an
attempt to devise some scheme by which his own ends could be attained.
But if his secretary flatly refused to remain?

"I think you are a consummate fool to your own interests," remarked his
employer.  "Foreign Governments when they employ an Englishman only work
him for their own ends, and throw him aside like a sucked orange."

"English employers often do the same," answered Macbean meaningly.

The millionaire was full of grave reflections, and in order to obtain
time to form some plan, he ordered Macbean to despatch the telegram and
return.

An hour later, when George entered the splendidly appointed study
wherein his employer was lounging, the latter rose, lit a cigar, and
turning to him in the dim light--for they were standing beyond the zone
of the green-shaded writing-lamp upon the table--said--

"I wish very much, Macbean, that you would listen to reason, and refuse
the appointment these Italians offer you.  You know as well as I do the
insecurity of Governments in Italy; how the man in power to-day may be
disgraced to-morrow, and how every few years a clean sweep is made of
all officials in the ministries.  You have told me that yourself.
Recollect the eye-opener into Italian methods we had when we saw the
Minister of War regarding the contracts for Abyssinia.  I wonder that
you, honest man as you are, actually contemplate associating yourself
with such a corrupt officialdom."  The arrogant moneyed man was clever
enough to appeal to Macbean's honour, knowing well that his words must
cause him to reflect.

"I shall only be an obscure secretary--an employee.  Such men have no
opportunity of accepting bribes or of pilfering.  Theft is only a virtue
in the higher grade."

"Well, since you've been out I've very carefully considered the whole
matter.  I should be extremely sorry to lose you.  You have served me
well, although I have shown no appreciation--I never do.  When a man
does his best, I am silent.  But I am prepared to behave handsomely if
you will remain.  Your salary shall be raised to five hundred a year.
That's handsome enough for you, isn't it?"

Macbean slowly shook his head, and declared that no monetary inducement
would be availing.  He intended to go to Italy at all hazards.

The millionaire stroked his whiskers, for he was nonplussed.  Yet he was
shrewd, and gifted with a wonderful foresight.  If Macbean really
intended to go to Rome, then some other means must be found by which to
ingratiate himself with the man he had so long ill-treated and despised.
There might come a day when Macbean would arise against him, and for
that day he must certainly be prepared.

He flung himself into his big morocco arm-chair and motioned George to
the seat at the writing-table, having first ascertained that the door
was closed.  Then, with a few preliminary words of regret that the young
man preferred service abroad, he said in a low, earnest voice--
confidential for the first time in his life--

"If you go to Rome it is for the purpose of improving your position--of
making money.  Now, I am desirous of obtaining certain information, for
which I am prepared to pay very handsomely, and at the Ministry of War
you can, if you go cautiously to work, obtain it."

"You mean some military secret?" remarked Macbean, looking quickly at
his master.  "I certainly shall never betray my employers."

"No, no, not at all," protested the arrogant man before him, with a dry
laugh.  "It is a secret which I desire to learn--one for which I will
willingly pay you ten thousand pounds in cash, if you can give me proof
of the truth--but it is not a military one.  You need have no fear that
I am asking you to act the traitor to your employers."  The two men
regarded each other fixedly.  Each was suspicious of double-dealing.
The millionaire was searching to discover whether the sum named was
sufficiently tempting to induce his secretary to act as his spy, while
the latter, scanning the large eyes of the other, endeavoured to read
the motive of the mysterious offer.

"You can earn ten thousand pounds easily if you are only wary and act
with careful discretion," went on the millionaire, seeing that Macbean
had become interested.  "It only requires a little tact, a few judicious
inquiries, and the examination of a few official documents.  To the
latter you will no doubt have access, and if so it will be easy enough."

"And what is it?" asked George Macbean after a brief pause, shifting in
his chair as he spoke.  "What is it you desire to know?"

"The truth regarding the exact circumstances of the death of poor
Sazarac."

The other held his breath.

"I desire to avenge his death," went on the millionaire quietly, looking
straight into the face of the astonished man, "and I intend to do so.
He was my friend, you know.  Discover the truth, and I will willingly
pay you the sum I have named--ten thousand pounds."  George Macbean sat
before his employer utterly bewildered, stupefied.

CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN.

VITO IS INQUISITIVE.

Three months had gone by.

The winter season in Florence had commenced in real earnest, and the
streets of the grey old city were agog with the crowd of wealthy
foreigners who migrate there for blue sky and sunshine.  The Via
Tornabuoni was bright with smart toilettes, the Lung Arno was crowded
with handsome equipages, the Cascine was full of life at the fashionable
hour of four, while Vieusseux's and the Floreal tea-shop overflowed, and
there was gay laughter and cosmopolitan chatter everywhere.

Florence had awakened from her summer siesta beneath the glare and heat,
and with her streets still sun-blanched she had put on that air of
irresponsibility which is always so attractive to the leisured
foreigner.  Florentine hostesses were already beginning to receive, and
the mass of small and jealous cliques, which calls itself English
society, had started their five o'clock and teacup scandals.

The Englishman who visits Florence to inspect her art treasures and to
bask in the sunshine of the Lung Arno or the heights of Fiesole is
entirely ignorant of its curious complex society--of the blood pride of
the Florentines, or of the narrow-minded prejudices of those would-be
cosmopolitan Britons, mostly with double-barrelled names, who are
residents.  Probably there is no circle in all the world so select and
so conservative as the society of the aristocratic Florentines.  The
majority of the princes, marquises, or counts are on the verge of
bankruptcy, be it said; nevertheless, they still retain all their pride
of race, and neither man nor woman is judged by his pocket.  Those huge,
ponderous cinquecento palaces, with their gloomy cortiles and their
closely barred windows, may have been stripped of their pictures, their
sculptures, and their antique furniture long ago, yet at the receptions
given in those bare skeletons of ancestral homes no one comments upon
the pinch of poverty that is so painfully displayed.

Your Florentine aristocrat makes a brave show to the world and to the
little English cliques around him.  He has a grand carriage with his
arms and coronet boldly emblazoned on every panel, he drives fine
horses, he has his clothes made in London, and his wife's dresses come
from the Rue de la Paix; he gambles at the circolo, and he lounges
picturesquely at Giacosa's or Doney's.  And yet in his great palace, the
doors of which are rigorously closed, he lives frugally in a few huge,
barely furnished rooms, and is scarcely able to make both ends meet.

The American invasion has, however, commenced to break down even this
barrier of caste, for several men of the bluest Florentine blood have,
of necessity, married American wives, in order to save themselves from
ruin, and have been loudly condemned for so doing.

In those bright January days all Florence was agog regarding the
engagement of Count Jules Dubard with Mary Morini, daughter of the
popular War Minister.  By reason of her mother's health, they had
remained on at the villa all the autumn; for neither had any desire for
the wild gaieties and entertaining which residence in Rome entailed upon
them, and preferred the quiet life of their ancient hillside home.

Daily through the streets of Florence Mary and Dubard flashed in the
Minister's motor-brougham, hither and thither, paying calls or shopping,
being greeted and congratulated on every hand.  Her father's official
position had given Mary the _entree_ to the most exclusive set, and in
Florence she was always as popular as she was in the court circle at the
Quirinale.  She dressed usually in cream flannel, with a large black hat
and a huge ostrich boa; while Dubard, smiling and elegant, was ever at
her side in the smart conveyance which rushed everywhere with loud
trumpeting.

Her family, in ignorance of the tragedy of her young life, were
delighted with the engagement, and on every hand had she received
heartiest good wishes.  For a girl to marry an Englishman or Frenchman
is considered the height of _chic_ in Italy, and Mary's social prestige
was increased a hundredfold by her prospect of becoming a French
countess.  The young pair became the most striking and popular figures
in the best Florentine society, while the English sets all vainly
struggled to get them to their houses.  Madame Morini being too unwell
to go out at night, Mary was usually chaperoned by the old Princess
Piola, a well-known society leader; and solely in order to please her
mother, Mary went to all the functions to which she was bidden.

The Minister's wife, however, had never entertained any great affection
for the English set in Florence.  She had once been an English governess
herself, and having known them all well through twenty years, had become
thoroughly disgusted with their petty bickerings and constant
scandal-mongering.  Strange that the English on the Continent always
divide into a quantity of small cliques.  The French, the Germans, even
the Scots, all join harmoniously and patriotically in a continental
tour; but, as the Italians are so fond of saying, "the English is a good
but strange nation."

With the exception of the British Consul-General's wife, who was an old
friend of her mother's, Mary visited no other English house.

"The Italian law of caste is bad enough, my dear," her mother had said
to her one day, "but the English backbiting is infinitely worse."

And so, with the man she was engaged to marry, she was seen night after
night at those huge old mediaeval palaces, often dimly lit on account of
the penury of their owners, and where the refreshments frequently
consisted of home-made lemonade and tarts from the pastrycook's.

One night at a dance at the great Cusani Palace on the Lung Arno, where
the old Marchioness Cusani was entertaining her friends, she found
herself chatting with Vito Ricci, the deputy, who, wearing on the lapel
of his coat the dark green ribbon and white cross of the Order of Saints
Maurice and Lazarus, had bowed low over her hand and murmured his
congratulations.

The great salon, with its polished floor, faded gilding, and crumbling
frescoes, was of the ornate style of three centuries before, but over
everything was a faded and neglected aspect.  Those empty niches in the
wall had once contained statues by Donatello, Niccolo Pisano, and
Montorsoli, all of which had been sold and exported from Italy to
America years ago; while the two large panels painted white had each
contained a Raphael, long since disposed of to the National Gallery in
London.  And although the supper consisted of sandwiches from Doney's,
and in lieu of champagne sweet Asti at two-francs-fifty the bottle, yet
the nobility of Florence far preferred gathering there to being
patronised by the wealthy Americans or English.

The music was good, and Ricci invited Mary to the waltz which at that
moment was just commencing.  She had known her father's secret agent
ever since she had been a child; therefore, nothing loth, she gave him
the favour he requested.  Both were excellent dancers.  Ricci went into
society of necessity, in order to keep in touch with the trend of
affairs, and was equally well known in Rome as in Florence, in Turin, or
in Naples.  His sponsor had been Morini himself, and he was one of the
very few of the rank and file of the Camera who moved actually in the
best sets.

"I have wanted to meet you for quite a long time, Miss Mary," he said in
Italian, after they had finished dancing and were strolling through one
of the high old ante-rooms, where two or three cavalry officers were
lounging with their partners.  At dances in Italy a hostess is always
careful to have a sprinkling of the military on account both of the
brilliant uniforms and of the fact that they are all dancing men.  "I
suppose, however," he added, bending to her and speaking in a low tone
that could not be overheard, "I suppose that, now you are to marry
Jules, any question that concerns him is debarred--eh?"

"What do you mean?" she inquired, looking at him quickly with her fine
dark eyes.

"I mean that I hesitate to put a question to you lest you should be
offended."

"It all depends upon the nature of the question," she answered, as they
turned into a long, dim corridor, where they found themselves alone.

"Well," he said, "as you are aware, I am your father's friend, and have
been so through many years.  Recently there was a--well, a crisis, which
was averted in a very unexpected and mysterious manner."

"I know," she remarked, turning rather pale.  She wore turquoise blue
that night, a beautiful gown of Paquin's which suited her admirably.
"My father has told me everything.  You made every effort to wreck the
Socialist conspiracy--and you were fortunately successful.  I return you
my very warmest thanks.  You saved my father."

"No; you are quite mistaken.  I did not.  The questions were abandoned
for some mysterious motive which I am still endeavouring to discover.
It is in pursuance of my inquiries that I am now approaching you.  Do
you follow me?"

"Perfectly."

"As far as I can gather, your father's enemies have only postponed their
blow.  It may fall at any time, therefore we must be prepared for it.
Montebruno received orders in secret to postpone his attack, and there
must have been a reason for this.  Perhaps the time was not yet ripe--
perhaps the Socialists feared a retaliation which might crush them.  In
any case, we must get at the truth, and thus be forearmed."

"And how can I assist you?" she asked, knowing the bitter truth of her
self-sacrifice, but determined to keep her secret to herself.

"By being frank with me."

"Well?"

"You are to marry Jules Dubard?"

"Yes."

"At your father's instigation?"

She was silent, and her cheeks turned slightly paler.  Their long
acquaintance gave him the right to put such a question to her, yet
within her heart she resented it.  Why should this secret agent, this
man who was an adventurer, although so useful in her father's service,
seek to learn the truth?

"My father gave his consent to our marriage," she replied simply.

"I know that.  He has already told me so.  I speak plainly, and say that
I am desiring to get at the truth."

"The truth of what?  I don't understand you."

"The truth regarding certain circumstances which are exceedingly
curious.  I have been for three months in active pursuit of knowledge,
and in my inquiries have discovered some very strange things.  Remember,
I am working in the interests of your father, and anything you may say
to me is in strict confidence.  We have known each other for a long
time, Miss Mary," he added--"indeed, ever since you wore short frocks
and used to flirt with me in the salon at San Donato.  Do you recollect
it?"

She laughed as a slight blush suffused her cheeks at recollection of her
girlhood days before she went to school at Broadstairs.  She recollected
how in those youthful days she had admired Vito Ricci, the well-dressed,
debonair deputy who was her father's closest friend.

"I remember," she admitted, laughing.

"Then let us speak in confidence," he went on, deeply in earnest.  "You
were acquainted with Felice Solaro, captain in the 6th Alpine Regiment,
who fell in love with you?"

She nodded, with eyes open in surprise.

"He declared his love, and you refused him.  Your father, who suspected
that the young captain had had the audacity to court you, was furious,
and forbade you to receive him.  But you saw him in secret one day to
bid him farewell as he was ordered to a garrison on the French frontier.
Your father being absent, you received him, at his own suggestion, in
the library of the palace in Rome.  While you were talking with him you
heard some visitors approaching, and you rushed out, locking him in the
library, pretending that your father had taken the key.  He remained
there in secret for over two hours, until you could escape from the
callers, release him, and let him out in secret.  Is that so?"

She blushed to the roots of her hair at recollection of that youthful
escapade, and admitted that all he had alleged was the truth.

"And that man is now in prison, charged with having sold military
secrets to France--a copy of a confidential document which was in a
drawer in your father's writing-table."

She stood staring at him, utterly speechless.

"But that is not the charge against him," she hastened to declare.  "He
is believed to have sold the plans of the Tresenta fortress."

"That is so, but there is also the graver charge--the copying of that
document which was in your father's keeping, and one of the most secret
and important concerning our army."

"But he is innocent?" she exclaimed.  "I know he is innocent, Signor
Ricci.  He is the victim of a woman named Nodari, at Bologna, who gave
perjured evidence against him."

"I know the whole facts.  I have read the depositions given at the
secret court-martial, but I have no means of judging whether he is
innocent or guilty.  One fact, however, I desire to learn, and it is
this.  Has the count ever mentioned to you the captain's name, or has he
ever admitted acquaintance with him?"

"Never to my knowledge," was her frank answer.  "Felice Solaro once
declared his love for me, and therefore, in order not to arouse the
count's jealousy, I have never referred to him."

"Naturally.  But the fact is all the more curious that the allegation of
Solaro's sale of the copy of the secret document to France--the copy of
that obtained from your father's writing-table--was actually made by the
count."

"By the count?" she cried.  "Then it was actually upon his evidence that
poor Felice has been degraded and condemned?"

"Exactly.  But the motive is utterly incomprehensible, for it would
really seem as though the captain was actually guilty of the treasonable
offence."

Mary was silent as they paced down the long, deserted corridor.  Then at
last she turned slowly to her companion, and in a strange, hoarse voice
said--

"Yes, it is incomprehensible why an innocent man should be made to
suffer, unless--unless my father and the count have acted in accord to
secure poor Felice's ruin and disgrace."

"But why?"

No words escaped her.  She only shrugged her white shoulders.  Yet the
man at her side saw in her fine dark eyes the light of unshed tears.
But even he did not suspect the truth.

CHAPTER TWENTY EIGHT.

"WAS SAZARAC YOUR FRIEND?"

It was a bright morning in Rome.

"You will recollect, Miss Mary, that when I congratulated you at Orton
upon your engagement to Dubard, you declared that you had no thought of
any such thing," exclaimed George Macbean, with a smile.  "I suppose I
may now be permitted to repeat my congratulations?"

"If you wish," was the girl's mechanical reply.  "And I thank you very
much," she added, her face quite serious.

They were standing together one morning in one of the smaller
reception-rooms of her father's palace.  He had called on the Minister
on official business, and they had met quite accidentally in the great
mediaeval courtyard, where the plashing of the old marble fountain broke
the quiet, playing on as it had done for nearly four hundred years; that
courtyard that was so full of stirring memories of the long past ages,
and the stones of which had echoed to the tramp of the armed retainers
of the great prince whose ancestral home it once was.

Since his arrival in Rome two months ago fortune had certainly smiled
upon George Macbean General Borselli had given him a lucrative
appointment in the Ministry at a salary which enabled him to rent a
comfortable little bachelor apartment in the Via Sistina.  The work was
very different from the drudgery from Morgan-Mason's correspondence, and
he had quickly found that his position at once gave him the _entree_ to
the official society of the Italian capital.  The Under-Secretary was
kindness itself, and he soon found that his office was one of those
sinecures with fat emoluments which are found more or less in every
Government department.

For three weeks or so after his arrival he had no occasion to meet His
Excellency the Minister, but when he one day entered Morini's private
cabinet, he took the opportunity of thanking him for the appointment.
The Minister thereupon, as though suddenly recollecting their previous
acquaintanceship, made a number of inquiries as to what office he was
filling in the Ministry and the nature of his work, the outcome of which
was that within six weeks of his arrival in the Eternal City he found
himself appointed private secretary to the Minister himself.

This displeased Borselli, he thought; for when he informed him of the
Minister's order, he remained silent and his sallow face assumed an
expression of distinct disapproval.  The general had not expected that
Morini would take the young man into his service, or he would probably
have hesitated to call him from London.  Nevertheless, the
Under-Secretary was too clever to openly exhibit any annoyance at the
chief's decision.  Indeed, he was always humble and obedient, bowing to
every decree of his superior, even though in his heart he was ever
plotting against him.  And so George Macbean had become one of His
Excellency's private secretaries, and very soon enjoyed a good deal of
the confidence of his principal.

Hitherto, however, his work lying always at the Ministry, he had never
had occasion to go to the palace.  From the first moment of his arrival
in Rome his mind had been full of recollections of Mary.  He had seen
her driving on the Pincio on the bright winter afternoons; he had passed
her in the Corso, and had seen her, exquisitely gowned, seated with her
mother in a box at the Constanzi.  But she had never once noticed him,
and on that morning, when he had been compelled to call at the palace to
receive instructions from his chief, who was unwell, they had come
suddenly face to face for the first time.

The meeting gave them mutual satisfaction.  There was no doubt upon that
point.  She had looked hard at him ere she recognised him, for, like all
the corridors in those mediaeval palaces, it was not very light, and she
would have passed him without acknowledgment had he not uttered her
name.

While standing there in that painted room with the tarnished gold
furniture and mosaic floor, so different from the country drawing-room
at Orton, with its bright chintzes and flowers, he had briefly told her
of the unexpected offer that had reached him in England, of his
acceptance, and of his ultimate appointment to be one of her father's
private secretaries.

"Only fancy!" she laughed.  "The world is really very small, is it not?
I never thought, when we played tennis together at your uncle's
tournament at Thornby, that you would be given an office in the Ministry
of War.  But I remember now how well you spoke Italian, and that you
told me how fond you were of Italy."

"I owe all my good fortune to your father, Miss Morini.  Believe me, it
has lifted me out of a world of drudgery and insult--for, as I think I
told you, I have been secretary to a Member of Parliament named
Morgan-Mason."

"Ah! of course!" she exclaimed quickly, regarding him with a curious,
fixed look.  "You were secretary to Mr Morgan-Mason."

"Yes.  Do you know him?"

"Not personally," she faltered, with some confusion.  "I--well, I've
heard of him.  Some English friends of mine know him very well, and
through them I have heard of the fellow's pompous egotism."

"Then you can well understand how very deeply I thank your father for
his kindnesses towards me."  And then he spoke of her engagement, about
which everyone in Rome was at that moment talking.

He noticed her disinclination to speak of the man whom she was to
marry--that man whom he knew so well.

"The count is in Paris," she answered briefly, when he inquired about
him.  "Have you not met him yet?  I recollect when in England he was
very anxious to meet you."

"No.  I have not seen him to congratulate him upon his good fortune,"
replied George, with a touch of bitterness; "but no doubt he will soon
return, and we shall come across each other."

"He is due back in a week in order to go to the royal reception at the
Quirinale on the nineteenth," she said.  "When I write to-morrow I will
tell him that you are now in Rome."

"No," exclaimed Macbean quickly.  "Don't tell him.  I like giving old
friends pleasant surprises.  When he returns I will call on him
unexpectedly."

His was a good excuse, and he was gratified to see that she accepted it.
It would, he knew, never do for her to write and inform her lover of
his presence in Rome.  If she did, he certainly would not dare to return
to the Eternal City.  George had resolved to conceal his presence from
the Frenchman and to carefully watch his movements.  Therefore he
induced the Minister's daughter to make no mention of him.

He found her somewhat more wan and pale than she had been in England.
She seemed preoccupied, _distraite_, with a touch of sadness in her
deep, liquid eyes that was scarcely in keeping with the passion and
ecstasy of an engagement.  She was not her old self, bright,
lighthearted, and careless, as she had been in those summer days in
England.  Something had occurred, but what it was he had no means of
ascertaining.

The one thought that held him spellbound was the reflection that she was
actually to marry Jules Dubard.

She was about to sacrifice herself, and yet he dare not tell her the
terrible truth.  He stood gazing into her great brown eyes, speechless
before that calm and wondrous beauty that had for months arisen
constantly before his eyes amid the whirl of London life.  Yes, he loved
her--he had fallen to worship at her shrine ever since those warm
afternoons when they had played tennis on the level English lawns, and
now this re-encounter had awakened within him all the wild passion of
his yearning heart.

During those days in Rome he had heard much of her, for she was popular
everywhere, a reigning beauty in the gay, exclusive circle which
surrounded the royal throne, and one of the most courted of all the
unmarried girls in the capital.  The season was at its height, therefore
she was seen everywhere, mostly in company with Dubard.  If the truth
were told, however, it was much against her own inclination.  She was in
no mood for gaiety.  All the life and gaiety had been crushed from her
heart, and she only attended the various functions because it was her
duty towards her father to do so.  Many a sleepless night she spent in
prayer and in tears.

Long ago she had become nauseated by all the glare and glitter, the
chatter and music of those gilded salons where smart Rome amused
themselves each evening.  Whenever she could, she made excuses to stay
at home in the quiet and silence of her own room; but as it was part of
her father's statecraft that she should be seen and congratulated, she
was compelled very often to put on her magnificent gowns with a sigh,
dance when her heart was leaden, and smile even though she was bursting
with grief.

Yet she rigorously kept the secret of her self-sacrifice, and none
suspected that the young French _elegant_ had compelled her to accept
him as husband.  Indeed, Dubard was already very popular in Rome.  He
was possessed of means, belonged to the most exclusive Italian club, and
drove a smart phaeton and pair each afternoon, frequently with Mary at
his side.

The men and women who were Dubard's friends were among the highest in
society, yet none knew the truth save Borselli and George Macbean,
neither of whom dare, for their own sakes, utter one single word in
denunciation.

"You told me at Orton that the count was an old friend, Mr Macbean,"
exclaimed Mary, after a brief pause.  She had met his gaze
unflinchingly, and then lowered her eyes to the ground.  She looked
fresh and neat in her plain black tailor-made gown, for she was dressed
ready to go out for her morning walk in the Corso.

"Yes.  We met several years ago," was Macbean's reply.

"Where?"

"In London."

"You must have been close friends," she remarked, "for he has on several
occasions asked whether I had heard of you."

George smiled, for his reflections were bitter ones.  "Yes," he said, "I
knew him quite well; but we drifted apart, as friends so often do."

"Then you will, of course, be glad to meet him again."

"For one reason, very glad.  Because I want to inquire of him what has
become of one who was our mutual friend, and who mysteriously
disappeared--a very curious affair."

"Was it a man?" asked Mary, suddenly interested.

"Yes--a French army officer--a General Felix Sazarac."

"Sazarac!" she gasped, with open mouth and cheeks suddenly blanched as
the name recalled to her the strange conversation between Borselli and
her father.  "Was Sazarac your friend?"

CHAPTER TWENTY NINE.

AROUND THE THRONE.

Mary, accompanied by the faithful Teresa, a stout, middle-aged woman in
black, who had seen fifteen years of service in the family, went out
along the Corso, at that hour crowded by the Roman idlers and foreign
visitors.

The bright air of the spring morning was refreshing after the dull gloom
of the great old Antinori palace, and all Rome was full of life,
movement, and gaiety.  Carnival had passed, and the Pasqua was fast
approaching, that time when the Roman season is its gayest and when the
hotels are full of wealthy foreigners from the north.

The court receptions and balls had brought the Italian aristocracy from
the various cities, and the ambassadors were mostly at their posts
because of the weekly diplomatic receptions.

As Mary went along the Corso to an artists' colour shop, in order to
purchase some tubes for the painting which occupied her spare time, she
was saluted on every hand, for she was well-known and popular
everywhere.  Her beauty was remarked wherever she went.

She bowed and smiled her acknowledgments, but, alas! only mechanically.
She really did not recognise any of those men who raised their hats, the
smart officers who drew their heels together and saluted, or the
well-dressed women who nodded to her.  Truth to tell, she was thinking
of the man with whom she had so suddenly come face to face, the
straight, athletic man who had spoken so openly and so frankly about
himself when they had stood upon that green, level tennis-lawn at Orton.
The recollection of him had almost faded from her memory until only
half an hour ago, and now she found herself reflecting deeply, wondering
whether he had really schemed to enter her father's service, and, if so,
with what motive.

He had acknowledged himself to be a friend of Dubard, the man she held
in such suspicion and distrust, and yet there was something so frank and
honest in his manner that it held her mystified.  As she walked along
that narrow, crowded thoroughfare in the heart of Rome, memories of
those idle summer days in England arose vividly before her, of the rural
tennis tournament at Thornby, of the village flower-show held in the
old-world rectory garden, and of George Macbean's visit to Orton.

Teresa spoke to her, but she heeded not.  Her mind was filled with
thoughts of the pleasant past when her life was free and she was
unfettered.  Now, however, that compact she had made to secure her
father's freedom had crushed all light and hope from her young heart, so
that day by day, as her marriage approached, she became more inert and
melancholy.

Her delicacy, grace, and simplicity were astonishing when one viewed
that irresponsible and artificial world of modern _chic_ in which she
lived.  Her character, indeed, resolved itself into the very elements of
womanhood.  She was beautiful, modest, and tender, so perfectly
unsophisticated, so delicately refined that she was peerless among all
others in that vain, silly, out-dressing set, where religion was only
the cant of the popular confessor and the scandal of a promenade through
Saint Peter's or San Giovanni, the brilliant glittering crowd who formed
the court circle of modern Italy around King Umberto's throne.

She had sprung up into beauty in that far-off modest school that faced
the grey English Channel at Broadstairs, and on making her bow before
her sovereign she had instantly created a sensation and a vogue for
herself that still continued, one which, was fostered by the Minister
and his wife, although at heart she hated all the hollow shams and
scandalous gossip.  True, she had had her little flirtations the same as
other girls, yet she had never caught from society one imitated or
artificial grace.  She preferred the society of her father or her mother
to that of girl friends; for most of the latter of her own world she
found giddy and empty-headed, generally boasting of conquests they had
made among men, and ridiculing them as fools.

She tolerated society only under sheer compulsion.  Through these three
wild years of whirling excitement she had fortunately retained her
woman's heart, for it was unalterable and inalienable, as part of her
being.  And it was because of that she had now sacrificed herself to
become the wife of Jules Dubard.

Oh, the tragedy of it all!  No single person was there in whom to
confide, or of whom to seek advice.  The bitter truth was forced upon
her more and more each day.  The compact with the man whose
artificiality and mannerisms she held in such abhorrence she was bound
to keep, for did she not hold her beloved father's future in her hands?

Of a sudden, when she was half-way up the Corso towards the Porta del
Popolo, she heard the musical sounds of harness bells as a fine landau
and pair swept up behind her.

Every man's head was uncovered and every woman bowed, for there flashed
by Umberto the Good and his Queen Margherita, both worshipped by the
people, and on every hand there rose the cry, "Viva il Re!  Viva la
Regina!"

Mary bowed with the rest, and Her Majesty, quick to notice her, gave her
a nod of recognition and gracious smile; for, as the world of Rome knew
quite well, she was one of those behind the throne, a personal friend of
the queen, who was never tired of admiring the wondrous beauty of the
Minister's daughter.

The royal pair passed on at a gallop up the Corso, and Mary sighed to
herself as the carriage disappeared.  It recalled to her that she was
compelled to attend the state ball at the Quirinale that night, much as
she hated all those glittering official functions.  Her dress, a
marvellous creation in yellow, had arrived from Paris the day before;
but when Teresa had taken it from its long box and shaken out the
magnificent skirt, she had scarcely glanced at it.  She wore those
gorgeous gowns which were so admired at court only because it gratified
her father.  Personally, she delighted in a short, tailor-made skirt and
a blouse like those she could wear at Orton.  The vagaries of the _mode_
never interested her in the least.  Paquin had her model, and made her
dresses as he liked.  She simply wore them, annoyed at those long and
difficult trains he gave her--that was all.

The gay world around the throne believed that she studied the fashions
and wore those costly gowns because she delighted in them.  But such was
not a fact.  Her tastes were of the simplest, and her ideal always was a
life in the rural quiet of Orton Court, with an occasional shopping
visit to London as a dissipation.  The very atmosphere of Rome, with its
false appearances, its bartering of a girl's bright youth, loveliness,
and purity for titles, its gambling and its drug habits, stifled her.
She loathed it all, and longed to enjoy life's good gifts in rural
England.  Yet, alas! such an ideal was to her but a dream.  It was her
fate to be drawn into that maelstrom where each man and woman must be
seen, must be known, and must be notorious in some way or other, no
matter how.

And because she was born in the official world, she was bound, for her
father's sake, to act her part in it.

Through all that day she reflected upon the words which the young
Englishman had uttered regarding Sazarac--that unusual name she had once
overheard spoken, and which she recollected so well.  She remarked how
her father had distinctly betrayed fear at mention of it, and therefore
the reason had ever since been a puzzling mystery to her.

For months she had wondered at what Borselli meant when he had
threatened her father.  The latter had reproached him of his intention
to betray him, whereupon the Under-Secretary had said--

"I am in earnest.  You act as I have suggested--or you take the
consequences!"

That in itself showed plainly that the Sicilian still held power over
her father on account of what had been mentioned between them as "the
Sazarac affair."

After luncheon she casually mentioned to her father her meeting with
George Macbean, whereupon he said--

"Oh, I quite thought I had told you of his appointment.  I wanted an
English secretary, and he was the very man to fill the post.  You
recollect that he visited us once or twice at Orton, but I had
previously met him when he came to interpret for his employer
Morgan-Mason regarding an army contract for Abyssinia."

"Did you offer him the appointment?" she asked.

"No; Angelo did.  He apparently knew of him."

His Excellency's reply surprised Mary.  Why, she wondered, had her
father's enemy appointed the young Englishman to a post in order to
transfer him to her father's cabinet as private secretary?  She was
suspicious of Borselli, and discerned in this some hidden motive.

And yet was it not more than strange that the young Englishman was
Dubard's friend, while Dubard himself was in the secrets of Angelo
Borselli!  The more she pondered over the problem the more bewildering
did it become.

At midnight she alighted with her mother from the brougham in the great
courtyard of the Quirinale, and gathering up her train, passed through
the long flower-decked corridors, up the great staircase of marble and
porphyry, where stood the tall, statuesque guards, and on into the
magnificent Hall of the Ambassadors, where the guests at the court ball
were assembling.

As she let down her train and entered the magnificent salon with its
gilt ceiling and myriad electric lights her appearance caused a murmur
of approbation as every eye was turned upon her.  The assembly was
perhaps the most brilliant of any that could be gathered in any European
capital.  The men were in uniforms of every colour, with the crosses and
ribbons of the various orders of chivalry.  The ambassadors and their
staffs were all there, from the Chinese representatives in their
national dress to the cunning old gentleman from St Petersburg in his
white uniform tunic with the blue ribbon of St Andrew at his throat.
Lord Elton, the British Ambassador, a dark-bearded, elderly man, wearing
the star of Knight Commander of the Bath, came forward to greet the War
Minister's wife and daughter, and there came up also to salute the
ambassador Morini himself in his gorgeous uniform with the cerise and
white ribbon of the Order of the Crown of Italy and the green and white
cross of Saints Maurice and Lazarus, as well as a number of minor
foreign orders across his breast.

In uniform Camillo Morini always looked his best, tall, refined,
distinguished, a man who would be marked out anywhere as a leader among
men.  He was pale and haggard, however, having risen from his bed to
come there and be seen because it was policy--always policy.

Around on every side were high Italian officers in their gala uniform
with golden epaulettes, women dressed exquisitely, and aged diplomatists
and politicians bent beneath the weight of their gold-laced coats and
many decorations.  The room was a bewildering blaze of colour, diamonds
gleaming in the tiaras of the women and in the crosses of the men, while
on every hand was the loud, excited chatter of the gay, laughing crowd
bidden there by royal command.

Lord Elton was chatting in English with Mary and her mother, explaining
that only yesterday he had returned from London, where he had been on
leave, when of a sudden three loud, distinct knocks were heard, and in
an instant there was silence.  Then, a moment later, at the farther end
of the apartment two long white doors were thrown open by the royal
flunkeys bearing white wands in their hands, and through them flowed the
crowd into the magnificent ballroom, one of the finest both in
proportions and in decoration of any palace in the world.  And here and
in the suite of huge gilded reception-rooms beyond the gay court of
Italy commenced its revels as the splendid orchestra in the balcony
struck up the first dance upon the programme.

From the ballroom there opened out through the open doors a vista of
magnificent salons unequalled in grandeur even in that city of ancient
palaces, and the elderly folk who did not care for dancing strolled
away, greeting their friends at every step, and forming little groups
for gossip.

Mary, who had quickly become separated from her mother, found herself,
almost before she was aware of it, in the arms of her friend Captain
Fred Houghton, the British naval attache, dancing over the magnificent
floor and receiving his compliments, while in a corner of the room,
apart from the others, stood Angelo Borselli in his general's uniform,
watching her with a strange smile upon his thin lips.

And all around was in progress that drama of intrigue, of statecraft and
duplicity, of diplomacy, of unscrupulous scheming for office and power
which is inseparable from the vicinity of every European throne.

In that gold and white room, while the orchestra played waltz-music, the
prosperity of the gallant Italian nation often trembled in the balance,
for those polished floors formed the stage whereon some of the strangest
of modern dramas were enacted.

CHAPTER THIRTY.

THE PATH OF THE TEMPTER.

An hour had passed, and Mary, against her inclination, had danced with
various partners, and had heard around her comments regarding her
personal beauty and her dress such as always reached her ears on such
occasions.  Everyone courted and flattered her, for in that gay court
circle she was one of its reigning queens.  Yet the hot air stifled her;
the mingled perfumes of flowers and chiffons nauseated her.  She hated
it all, and was longing to get away back to the solitude of her own
room, where, after old Teresa had brushed her hair, she might sit in her
big easy-chair and think.

Blase of life before her time, she was disappointed, world-weary, and
heart-broken, although as yet only in her early womanhood.  She had been
dancing with the young Prince de Sarsina, a well-known figure in Roman
society, and he had led her to a seat beside the old Duchess de Rovigor,
when, in the lull of the music, those mysterious knocks were again
repeated, and at the farther end of the ballroom there stood the
black-habited royal chamberlain.

There was silence at once.  Then the royal official announced in Italian
in a loud, ringing voice--

"His Majesty the King!"

And at the same moment a pair of long gilt and blue doors were flung
open, and into the room there advanced the sovereign, a well-set-up,
pleasant-faced figure with white moustache, before whom all bowed low
three times in obeisance as he strode with regal gait into the centre of
the enormous ballroom.  In his splendid uniform outrivalling all, and
wearing the grand crosses of the Crown of Italy, Maurice and Lazarus,
and Savoy orders of which he was master, his figure presented a fitting
centre to that brilliant assembly; and soon, when the obeisances were
made and he had saluted in return, he moved away in conversation with
Morini, who, as all were aware, was one of his most intimate friends.

Then, when the queen, wearing her wonderful pearls, entered with the
same ceremony, together with the Crown Prince and Princess of Naples,
the orchestra struck up again and the revelry continued notwithstanding
the presence of the sovereigns, who mixed freely with their guests and
laughed and talked with them.

Presently, as Mary on the arm of a partner was passing near to where Her
Majesty was sitting upon the raised dais at the end of the room, the
queen suddenly beckoned to her, whereupon she left the man who was her
escort, curtseyed as etiquette demanded, and approached the royal
presence.

"I only heard the news the day before yesterday on our return from
Berlin," exclaimed Her Majesty in English, with a kindly smile as the
girl came up to her.  "But of course your engagement scarcely comes as a
surprise.  Let me congratulate you.  You must present the count to me at
the first opportunity.  Is he now in Rome?"

"No, Madame," was the girl's blushing reply.  "But I thank your Majesty
for your kind thought of me."

"I wish you every happiness, my dear," declared the queen, for Mary was
an especial favourite with her.  "Perhaps I may be able to attend your
wedding.  When will it be?"

"In June, Madame."

"Very well.  Give me good notice of the date, and I'll see if I can
come."  And then she dismissed the Minister's daughter by turning to
speak with one of her ladies-in-waiting who had returned from executing
some commission upon which her royal mistress had sent her.

What irony, thought the girl, as she curtseyed and left the royal the
trap into which she had fallen!

Through those high-roofed, magnificent chambers, with their wonderful
friezes, priceless paintings, and gilt furniture, she wandered on,
acknowledging greetings on every hand, yet only mechanically, for her
thoughts were far away from that scene of royal revelry.  The atmosphere
held her asphyxiated, the music jarred upon her ears, and the gossip she
heard on every side was for her devoid of all interest.

One face alone arose before her amid that glittering throng, the face of
the Englishman she had met so unexpectedly that morning--George Macbean.

And why?  She asked herself that question, and yet to it could give no
direct response.  His frank honesty of countenance and his muscular
English form attracted her, but when the suggestion crossed her mind
that she loved him, she laughed such an idea to scorn.  They were
comparative strangers, and she prided herself on being one who had never
fallen into the error of affection at first sight as so many other girls
did.  Her character, it was true, was too well balanced for that.

Yet the truth remained that all her thoughts that day had been of him.

Both the Baron Riboulet, the French Ambassador, and old Prince Demidoff
had grasped her hand and paid their compliments, while the princess
managed to whisper in French, "I never saw you looking so well as
to-night, my dear.  That gown suits you admirably, and is by far the
most striking here.  One cannot wonder at Count Dubard's choice.  He has
always been known in Paris as a connoisseur of beauty, you know," and
Her Excellency the Princess showed her yellow teeth in a broad grin at
what she meant as humour.

Wherever Mary went, half a dozen of the younger men followed in her
train like bees about their queen.  She laughed with them, made humorous
remarks, and chatted to them with that air of bright, irresponsible
gaiety by which she so cleverly concealed the heavy burden of grief and
disappointment that filled her heart.  In Roman society the younger men
vied with each other to become friends of Mary Morini, hence at such
functions as these they liked to be seen in her company, laughing or
dancing with her.

The young Duke di Forano, who had recently returned from Paris, where he
had acted as first secretary of the Italian Embassy, had taken her in to
supper in the huge winter garden where the tiny tables were set beneath
the palms, and they had been waited upon by the royal servants.  In the
dim light of the Chinese lanterns the duke, an old friend, had taken her
hand in his; but she had withdrawn it in indignation, saying--

"You have no right to do that, now that I am engaged."

"Ah yes! of course," he exclaimed, with a word of apology, at once
interested.  "I heard something about it in Paris, but quite forgot.
Jules Dubard is the lucky fellow--isn't he?"

She nodded.

And as she looked into his dark, well-cut features in the half-light she
fancied she discerned a curious look, half of pity and half of surprise.

"I hope you'll be happy," he remarked in a hard voice.  "I always
thought you would marry Solaro--poor devil!  Do you remember him?"

"Remember!" she echoed.  "Yes; I recollect everything.  You may well say
`poor devil.'  He has been convicted of being a traitor--of selling army
secrets to France."

"I know--I know," answered her companion quickly.  "We had all the
papers concerning the charges through the Embassy, and I am aware of all
the facts.  My own idea is that he's innocent, yet how can it be proved?
He was betrayed by some heartless woman in Bologna, it seems.  She made
all sorts of charges against him."

"She lied!" cried Mary quickly.  "He is innocent.  I know he is, and
some day I hope to be able to prove it."

"Ah, I wish I could help you!" was his fervent declaration.  "He was my
friend, you know.  Perhaps the real truth may be known some day, but
until then we can only wait, and he must bear his unjust punishment."

"But it is a crying scandal that he should have been degraded when he is
innocent!" declared the daughter of the Minister of War.

"Your father, no doubt, ordered the most searching inquiry.  It is
strange that, if he is really innocent, his innocence has not been
proved."

"You are quite right," she said.  "That very fact is always puzzling
me."

"There may be some reason why he has been consigned to prison," remarked
the diplomatist, thoughtfully twisting his champagne-glass by the stem,
"some reason of State, of which we are ignorant."

"But my father would never willingly be party to such an injustice."

"Probably not; but what seems possible is that Solaro is held in prison
by some power greater than your father's--the power of your father's
enemies."

She thought deeply over those strange words of his.  It almost seemed as
though he were actually in possession of the truth, and yet feared to
reveal it to her!

Presently they rose again, and returned to where the cotillon had
commenced.  She did not take part in it, because her heart was too full
for such frivolities.  The young diplomatist had left her at a seat,
when almost immediately her father's enemy, Angelo Borselli, approached,
and bowed low over her hand.

She knew well how he had endeavoured to ruin and disgrace her father,
and how he intended to hold the office of Minister himself; yet, owing
to the instructions His Excellency had given her, she treated him with
that clever diplomacy which is innate in woman.  In common with her
father, she never allowed him to discern that she entertained the
slightest antipathy towards him, and treated him with calm dignity as
she had always done.

Borselli, in ignorance that the Minister was aware of all the
ramifications of his shrewd scheming, still affected the same friendship
for Morini and his family, and affected it with a marvellous
verisimilitude of truth.  One of the cleverest political schemers in
Europe, he was unrivalled even by Vito Ricci, who in the past had
performed marvels of political duplicity.  Yet Mary's tact was a match
for him.

Only three days ago she and her father had dined at his big new mansion
in the Via Salaria, and neither man had betrayed any antagonism towards
the other.  It is often so in this modern world of ours.  Men who
inwardly hate each other are outwardly the best of friends.  Neither
Morini nor Mary had any trust in him, however, for both knew too well
that he intended by some clever _coup_ one day to deal the blow and
triumph as usurper.  Yet both, while wary and silent, masked their true
feelings of suspicion beneath the cloak of indifference and
friendliness.

Having taken a seat beside her, he began to gossip pleasantly, while his
dark eyes were darting quick glances everywhere, when suddenly he
asked--

"Is not Jules here?  I thought he was commanded here to-night."

"No.  To the next ball.  He is in Paris," she said simply, without
desire to discuss the man to whom she had engaged herself.

"And you do not regret his absence--eh?" remarked the Sicilian in a low
voice, bringing his sallow, sinister face nearer to hers.

"I do not understand you," she exclaimed, drawing herself up with some
hauteur.  "What is your insinuation?"

"Nothing," was his low response.  "You need not be offended, for I do
not mean it in that sense.  I merely notice how you are enjoying
yourself this evening during his absence, and the conclusion is but
natural."  And his face relaxed into a smile.

"Well," she declared, as across her fair face fell a shadow of quick
annoyance, "I consider, general, your remark entirely uncalled for."
And she rose stiffly to leave him.

But he only smiled again, a strange, crafty smile, that rendered his
thin, sallow face the more forbidding, as he answered in a low voice,
speaking almost into her ear, and fixing his eyes on hers--

"I may surely be forgiven as an old friend if I approach the truth in
confidence, signora.  You have accepted that man's offer of marriage,
but you have done so under direct compulsion.  You desire to escape from
your compact.  You see I am aware of the whole truth.  Well, there is
one way by which you may escape.  But recollect that what I tell you is
in the strictest secrecy and confidence from your father--from everyone.
I speak as your friend.  There is a way by which you can avoid making
this loveless alliance which is naturally distasteful to you--a way by
which, if you choose to adopt it, you may save yourself!"

She faced the man, her brown eyes meeting his in speechless surprise and
wonder at his enigmatical words.

What could he mean?

CHAPTER THIRTY ONE.

IN WHICH A DOUBLE GAME IS PLAYED.

"I do not quite follow you, general," faltered Mary after a brief pause,
regarding him with a puzzled air.

"Then let us find a quiet corner where we can be alone, and I will
explain," said Borselli, rising and offering the girl his arm.  Both
were well acquainted with all the ramifications of the splendid state
apartments, the ante-chambers, the winter garden, and the corridors,
therefore he led her through the Throne Room to a small apartment at the
rear of the Hall of the Princess, an elegant little room hung with pale
green silk and the gilt furniture of which bore embroidered on the backs
of the chairs the royal crown with the black eagle and white cross of
Savoy.

So cleverly did Angelo Borselli conceal his schemes and his hatreds that
through years he had deceived so shrewd and far-seeing a man as his
chief Morini.  His insinuating address and rather handsome exterior
rendered him, if not welcome in Roman society, at least tolerated, more
especially as through him recommendations could be made to Morini, whose
word was law on every point concerning the army of Italy.  A certain
degree of suspicion and some feeling of awe attended him, though it was
rather in his absence than his presence, for his ready wit and fluent
conversation were not calculated to inspire other than agreeable
thoughts.

It was only as he cast himself into a chair at her side, hesitating how
to put the matter before her, that in the glance of his dark, sparkling,
deeply set eyes might have been detected a sinister motive and a
searching and eager expression at variance with the frank and joyous
manner of a moment before.

That glance betrayed the depth of the man's cunning.

"You have no love for Dubard," he remarked slowly.  "I have watched, and
I have seen it plainly.  Yet you are engaged to him because he has
compelled you to accept him as your husband.  He holds a certain power
over you--when he orders you dare not disobey!  Am I not correct?" he
asked, looking straight into her brown, wide-open eyes.

She nodded in the affirmative, and a slight sigh escaped her.  She was
suspicious of him, but did not recognise the trend of his argument.

"Then let us advance a step further," he said, in the same quiet,
serious manner.  "It is but natural you desire to escape from him.  He
is repugnant to you; perhaps you loathe him, and yet you wear a mask of
pretended happiness!  Surely you cannot take up life beside a husband
whom you secretly despise!  You are a woman who desires to love and be
loved, a woman who should marry a man worthy your reverence and
self-sacrifice," he added, in a voice which seemed to her full of a
genuine solicitude for her future.

His attitude was full of mystery.  The sudden interest which he--her
father's bitterest enemy--betrayed on her behalf was inexplicable.

"Well," she faltered at last, "and if I really desire to break off my
engagement with the count?  What course do you suggest?"

"You must break your engagement, signorina," he exclaimed quickly.  "For
several weeks I have desired to speak plainly and frankly to you, but I
feared that certain distorted facts having perhaps come to your ears,
you might treat me as your enemy rather than your friend.  But to-night,
finding you alone, I resolved to speak, and, if possible, to save you
from sacrificing yourself to a man so unworthy of you."

"But I always thought he was your friend!" she exclaimed in surprise,
looking straight at the man before her and toying with her big feathered
fan.

"We are friends.  We have been guests together under your father's roof
in England, you will remember," he admitted.  "Yet I entertain too much
respect for your father and his family to stand by and see you become
the victim of such a man as Jules Dubard."

"You are his friend, and yet you speak evil of him behind his back!" she
remarked.

"No, I do not speak evil in the least.  You misunderstand my motive.  It
is in the interests of your own well-being and future happiness.  We
must not allow that man to force you into an odious union.  He is
clever, but you must outwit him.  Your duty to yourself is to do so."

"But how can I?" she asked, with a desperation in her voice that came
involuntarily, but which revealed to Borselli her eagerness to escape
from the web which Dubard had weaved about her.

The future of that beautiful girl, the most admired of all that
brilliant throng at court, was the future of Italy.  Angelo Borselli
knew it, and recognised what an important part that handsome daughter of
the Minister was destined to play.

"There is one way--only one way," he answered, bending towards her,
speaking confidentially, and keeping his deep-set eyes fixed upon hers.
"The man Dubard has very cleverly succeeded in forcing you to accept him
as husband.  But you must escape from your present peril by revealing
the truth."

"The truth of what?"

"The truth of that man's motives."

"But they are all a mystery.  How can I ascertain the truth?"

"There is one man who knows--one man who, if he chose to speak, could at
once give you freedom."

"But who is he?" she inquired eagerly.

"Felice Solaro--your friend."

"Solaro!" she gasped.  "But he is in prison in Turin, condemned for
fifteen years for treason!"

"For an offence of which he is not guilty," declared the Under-Secretary
quickly.

"Ah!  And that is your opinion, as mine, general!" she cried eagerly.
"I know he is innocent."

"Then secure his release.  Persuade your father to sign a decree
reversing the finding of the court-martial, and he, in turn, can save
you from falling victim to this man to whom you are giving yourself in
marriage."

Angelo Borselli met her piercing glance unmoved.  She seemed to be
trying to divine the schemer's secret thoughts.

"You will do this--for your own sake," he whispered earnestly.  "It is
unjust that the poor captain should be kept in prison for a crime of
which he is innocent."

"But if you know that he is not guilty, why have you not already used
your own influence as Under-Secretary to secure his release?" she asked,
with distinct suspicion, a thousand uneasy thoughts agitating her bosom.

"Because I am powerless.  It is only His Excellency, your father, who
can sign decrees," was his reply, adding, "I have more than once
directed his attention to the act of gross injustice, but his reply has
in each case been the same--namely, that he had examined the evidence,
and that he could discover no doubt about the captain's culpability in
selling the secrets of Tresenta and of our mobilisation scheme for the
protection of the French frontier.  Both secrets actually reached the
Intelligence Department of the French Ministry of War, for that has been
proved beyond doubt by our secret agents in Paris; and, further, they
passed through the hands of a lady friend of Solaro's--Filomena Nodari."

"Where is that woman now?  Still in Bologna?"

"No, I think not," was his reply, without, however, telling her how he
had taken the woman into his service and sent her to England.  "I
learned a short time ago that she had left, and gone abroad."

"It was through her false evidence that Felice was convicted.  She told
foul untruths concerning him," his companion cried angrily.

"I know.  Perhaps it is owing to fear of the truth being exposed that
she has left Bologna.  But in any case, it is only common justice that
poor Solaro should be released.  He has never had a chance of a proper
appeal--your father refused it to him."

"But why?  Has my father any reason why the poor fellow should be kept
in prison?"

Angelo Borselli raised his shoulders and exhibited his palms in a
gesture more forcible than mere words.

"And if he has, then how can I hope to succeed in turning his favour
towards the accused man?"

"Try.  Do your utmost, signorina," he urged, with perhaps more eagerness
than was really warrantable in such circumstances.  "Appeal to your
father's sense of justice, to his honour, to his reputation as one
always ready to redress wrongs.  You, as his daughter, can accomplish
everything if you wish--even the freedom of Felice Solaro."

"And if I do?"

"Then he will speak the truth, and you need have no fear of the man who
has so cleverly entrapped you into this engagement.  When the truth is
out he will at once relinquish his claim to your hand."

She hesitated.  She was wondering whether the crafty statesman who had
risen by her father's favours was really aware of the secret compact she
had made with Dubard; whether he knew that she had given her hand to him
in exchange for his protection of her father's honour.

Jules had seen her a few days after the curious scene in the Chamber of
Deputies.  He had come to her to receive the payment he had demanded in
the shape of a formal engagement of marriage.  But he had told her
nothing concerning the manner in which he had managed to avert the
crisis, and she only knew the story of the letter to Montebruno through
Vito Ricci, her father's spy.  She was unaware of Jules' visit to the
man now before her, or of his threat to make revelations if the fatal
question were asked in the Chamber.

Women of Mary Morini's type rise to higher heights of sacrifice and,
when determined, act with a courage rare among men.  She is herself in a
thousand ways men never dare to be, and a fine woman is worth a hundred
of the finest men.

"But if you are really speaking in my own interests as my friend,
general, why cannot you furnish me with the weapon by which I can defend
myself from him?" she suggested at last.

"For two reasons.  First, your parents, ignorant of the real facts, are
delighted at the prospect of your marriage; secondly, Solaro alone holds
the truth.  He can speak and prove his facts."

"Regarding what?"

"Regarding Jules Dubard."

"Regarding the man whom you still allege is your friend?  Really,
general, the manner in which you exhibit friendship towards others is a
rather curious one, if this is an example of it?"

He was unprepared for such a remark from her.  But it showed him,
nevertheless, how frank and fearless she had become.

"I merely offer you my advice, signorina," he answered, shifting
slightly in his chair and settling his sword.  "It is surely a thousand
pities that you should become the victim of a man of Dubard's stamp
when, by a little clever manoeuvring, you may not only do an act of
justice by freeing poor Solaro, but also free yourself from the
engagement into which you have entered against your will."

"But you tell me that my father has already refused to release the
captain?" she remarked, regarding him with a puzzled air.  "If this is
so, then what can I do further?"

"Persuade him.  You alone can induce him to act as you desire.
Recollect that upon that man's liberty your own future depends."

The Sicilian, careful student of the human character as he was, knew
well that a generous, magnanimous woman, like the one before him, is
more ingenious and confident in well-doing than any man.  He had
carefully watched her, and by means of his secret agents knew that she
entertained no love for the man to whom she had become engaged.
Therefore, with his unequalled cunning, he had devised a fresh means of
making his _coup_ and attaining his end in spite of Jules Dubard.

He watched her beautiful countenance, and saw that his words had created
an impression.  A grave injustice had been done in degrading and
imprisoning the handsome young captain who had once admired her so, and
he knew that she would seek to remedy it.  He had given her a strong and
direct motive for securing Solaro's release--her own liberty.

"Very well," she sighed at last.  "I thank you, general, for speaking to
me so frankly.  I will see what I can do in order to obtain a pardon for
him.  But if I do, will you promise to assist me in the matter which
concerns me personally?"

"I promise you that Solaro shall tell the truth; that on the day
following his release you shall be placed in a position to defy this man
who believes that you have fallen his victim.  Do you agree?"

She was silent for a moment, still distrustful of the man who had so
narrowly encompassed her father's downfall.  Yet she recollected that
the face of politics changes quickly, and in a low voice and with sudden
resolution answered--

"I do."

He stretched forth his white gloved hand, and without further word she
took it in pledge of good faith.  She had in her desperation made terms
with the enemy, and as the Under-Secretary rose to escort her back
through the gay assembly in the state-rooms, a faint, good-humoured
smile flitted across his sallow features.

He felt confident that his craft and cunning must succeed--that she
would obtain Solaro's release, and then the triumph for which he had so
long and patiently waited would be his.

True, the fate of men's lives and nations' destinies was often juggled
with in those great gilded halls where the air was heavy with perfume,
the ear charmed with delightful music, and the eye dazzled by the
glitter of that brilliant court, every member of which, man or woman,
schemed, struggled, and intrigued to satisfy their own vices or their
own ambitions.

CHAPTER THIRTY TWO.

THE BIRTH OF LOVE.

George and Mary met frequently in the days that followed.  His
Excellency was still suffering from an attack of that prostrating malady
Roman fever, and George, as his private secretary, was daily in
attendance upon him.

Morini liked the young man for his honest English sturdiness of
character, his diligent application to his duties, and his enthusiasm
for all that was beneficial to the army.  He had quickly picked up his
duties, and already the Minister of War found his assistance
indispensable.

He worked a good deal in the big old library of the palace, wherein the
Minister's daughter and wife often entered to salute him and sometimes
to give him an invitation to remain to luncheon, when the conversation
would generally be upon English matters in general and things at Orton
and Thornby in particular.  Both mother and daughter delighted in their
English home, and always regretted leaving it for that fevered existence
they were compelled to lead continually in the Italian capital.

Mary was already engaged, otherwise neither Morini nor his wife would
probably have allowed the two young people to be thrown so constantly
into each other's society.  Thus, however, the bond of friendship
gradually became strengthened between them, he loving her fondly in
secret, while she regarded him as a man in whom she might one day
confide.  She had no friend in whom she could trust, save her father.
Amid her thousand acquaintances in that brilliant world around the
throne there was not one who would not betray her confidence at the
moment any profit might be made out of it.  Therefore she kept herself
to herself, and mixed with them only as etiquette or her father's policy
demanded.

George Macbean was, on his part, filled with wonder.  She was actually
to marry Jules Dubard--that man of all men!

Surely her parents were in ignorance of who and what the fellow had
been; surely by his clever cunning and shrewd manoeuvring he had misled
even the sharp-eyed Minister himself, and induced him to give his
consent to his daughter's marriage.

He pitied Mary--pitied her from the bottom of his heart.  He knew that
there must be some secret which she held and would not divulge; for if
not, why should she regard her forthcoming marriage with such a lack of
enthusiasm--why, indeed, should she purposely abstain from discussing
Dubard?  He closely watched her, and recognised how she had sadly
changed since those bright days at Orton.  Upon her brow was now a
settled expression of deep thought and sadness, and when she thought
herself unobserved a low sigh would sometimes escape, her, as though her
thoughts were bitter ones.

Was it possible that she suspected the truth concerning Jules Dubard?
Was it even possible that she was marrying him under compulsion?

In the silence of his own apartment he sat for hours, smoking his
English pipe and wondering, while the babel of sounds of the foreign
city came up from the street below.  How strange were the ways of the
world, how bitter the ironies of life!  He loved her--ah yes!  He loved
her with all the passion of his soul, with all the deep and earnest
devotion of which an honest man is capable.  Yet, poor as he was, merely
her father's underling, how could he ever hope to gain her hand?  No, he
sighed day after day, it was hopeless--utterly hopeless.  Hers was to be
a marriage of convenience--she was to wed Dubard, and become a countess.

But if he only dared to speak!  He might save her--but at what cost?
His own disgrace and ruin.

And he bit his lip to the blood.

Fortune had lifted him out of the drudgery of Morgan-Mason's service and
brought him there to Rome, to a position of confidence envied by ten
thousand others.  Could he possibly sacrifice his future, his very life,
just as it had suddenly opened up to him?

And he pondered on, meeting her, talking with her, and each hour falling
deeper under the spell of her marvellous grace and beauty.

Mary, on her part, was full of thought.  A frightful gulf was opened
before her; she could not fly from its brink; she was goaded onwards
though she saw it yawning beneath her feet.

While sitting alone with her father in his room one evening she
approached the subject of Felice Solaro; but he instantly poured forth
such a flood of invectives upon the condemned man that she was compelled
to at once change the subject.  To her it seemed that for some
unaccountable reason he was prejudiced against the imprisoned man, and
anything she might say in his favour only served to condemn him the
more.

On looking back upon the past, she found that she had regarded love as a
matter of everyday occurrence.  She heard of it, saw it wherever she
moved; every man who approached her either felt or feigned it; and so
accustomed was she to homage and devotion that its absence alone
attracted her attention.  She had considered it part of her state--and
yet of the real nature of true affection she had been perfectly
unconscious.

She had more than once imagined herself in love, as in the case of
Felice Solaro, mistaking gratified vanity for a deeper emotion--had felt
pleasure in the presence of its object, and regret in absence; but that
was a pastime and no more--until now.

But now!  She held within her heart a deep secret--the secret of her
love.

And this rendered her future all the more serious--her marriage all the
more a fearful undertaking.  She had no escape from her fate; she must
marry a man who at least was indifferent to her.  Could she ever suffer
herself to be decked for this unpromising bridal, this union with a man
who at heart was the enemy of her family and whom she hated?

One evening she again met George Macbean.  He had returned from Naples,
where he had executed a commission given him by the Minister, and had
reported to his chief his visit to the commandant of the military
district.  He afterwards sat with Mary and her mother in one of the
smaller reception-rooms of the ponderous old mansion.  Mary, who was in
a black dinner-dress slightly _decollete_, took up her mandoline--the
instrument of which he was so fond--and sang the old Tuscan song, in
which, with his heart so overburdened, he discerned a hidden meaning--

  "Io questa notte in sogno l'ho veduto,
  Era vestito tutto di broccato;
  Le piume sul berretto di velluto,
  Ed una spada d'oro aveva allato.
  E poi m'ha detto con un bel sorriso.
  Io non posso piu star da te diviso!
  Da te diviso non ci posso stare,
  E torno per mai piu non ti lasciare!"

These words sank as iron into his soul.  Did she, he wondered, really
reciprocate his concealed and unexpressed feelings?  Ah no, it was
impossible--all impossible.

And when she had laid aside her instrument, he commenced to describe to
them the grand review of troops which he had witnessed outside Naples
that morning, and how the general staff had treated him as an honoured
guest.

"Ah!" sighed Madame Morini.  "If we were to tell the truth, Mr Macbean,
both Mary and I are tired of the very sight of uniforms and the sound of
military music.  Wherever my husband goes in Italy a review is always
included in the programme, and we have to endure the heat and the dust
of the march past.  Once, when I was first married, I delighted in all
the glitter and display of armed forces, but nowadays I long and ever
long for retirement at dear old Orton."

"And so do I," declared her daughter quickly.  "When I was at school in
England I used to look forward to the day when I would be presented at
the Quirinale and enter Roman society.  But oh, the weariness of it all!
I have already become sick of its glare, its uncharitableness, and its
intrigues.  England--yes--give me dear England, or else the quiet of San
Donato.  You have never been there yet, Mr Macbean," she added, looking
into his face.  "When you do go, you will find it more quiet and more
beautiful than Orton."

"I have no doubt," he said.  "If it is in the Arno valley, I know how
beautiful the country is there, having passed up and down from Pisa many
times.  Those are photographs of it in madame's boudoir--are they not?"

"Oh yes.  Ah! then you've noticed them," she exclaimed.  "It is a
delightful old place, is it not?"  His eyes were fixed upon hers, and he
read in their dark depths the burden of sorrow that was there.  Dubard
was due back in Rome, but he had not returned, nor had she mentioned the
reason.  He wished to meet him--to observe what effect his presence
would have upon that man who had robbed him of all the happiness of
life.

The chiming of the little French clock reminded him that it was the hour
to take his leave, therefore he rose, grasped the hands of the grave,
kind-faced Englishwoman and her daughter, and went forth into the
old-world street, striding blindly on towards his own rooms.

"Really a delightful fellow," remarked her mother when the door had
closed behind him.  "His English manners are refreshing after those of
all the apeish young fools whom we are compelled for the sake of policy
to entertain.  But," she added, with a laugh, suddenly recollecting, "I
ought not to say that, my dear, now that you are to marry a Frenchman.
I married an Italian, and as far as my choice of a husband has gone, I
am thankful to say I have never regretted it--even though our natures
and our religions are different."

"I will never become a Catholic--never!" declared Mary decisively.  "I
do not, and I shall never, believe in the confessional."

"Nor do I," responded her mother.  "But there is no need for you to
change your religion.  The count has already told me that he has no such
desire.  By the way, he was due back the day before yesterday.  Why has
he not returned?"

"I heard from him yesterday.  He has gone down to the Pyrenees--on
business connected with the estate, he says;" and then, after some
further gossip regarding a charity bazaar at the German Embassy, at
which they were to hold a stall on the morrow, the unhappy girl rose,
and with uneven steps went along the gloomy, echoing corridors to her
own room.

Teresa brushed her long brown tresses as she sat before her long mirror
looking at the reflection of her pale face and wondering if the young
Englishman guessed the truth.  Then as soon as possible she dismissed
her faithful serving-woman, and still sat in her chair, her mind
occupied by a thousand thoughts which chased each other in quick
succession.

One thought, in spite of all her efforts, she was unable to banish; it
returned again and again, and would intrude in spite of her struggles to
suppress it--the image of George Macbean, the man who had so suddenly
become her friend.

The night wore on, and in the silence of her pretty chamber she wept for
some time, abandoning herself to melancholy fancies; at length,
reproaching herself for thus permitting sorrow to usurp the place of
that resignation which the pure faith she had adopted ought to inspire,
she threw herself upon her knees and offered to Heaven the homage of an
afflicted and innocent heart.

As she rose from her knees the church bells of Rome were chiming one.
She shuddered at the solemn stroke, for every hour seemed to bring her
nearer the terrible self-sacrifice which she was compelled to make for
her father's sake.  Her fears had risen almost to distraction, and she
had wept and prayed alternately in all the agonies of anxiety.

The truth that had now forced itself upon her held her aghast,
immovable.  She loved George Macbean.  Yes, she murmured his name aloud,
and her words sounded weird and distinct in the silence of the night.

Yet if she withdrew from her unholy agreement with the man who had
forced her to give her promise, then the hounds of destruction would be
let loose upon her house.

And her father?  She had discovered in the drawer of his carved
writing-table at San Donato that tiny tube of innocent-looking tabloids;
and though she kept the secret to herself, she had guessed his
intention.

Could she deliberately allow him to sacrifice his life when there was
still a means open whereby to save him?

She sank again upon her knees by the bedside, and greyed long for Divine
help and deliverance.

CHAPTER THIRTY THREE.

MRS FITZROY'S GOVERNESS.

Mrs Charles Fitzroy was delighted with her new Italian governess.

She had contemplated engaging a Frenchwoman or a Swiss to teach little
Bertha, but most fortunately, General Borselli, whom she had met during
a season spent with her husband in Rome, came to her aid and recommended
the daughter of the deceased Colonel Nodari.  She came, and her slight,
rather tall figure in neat black, her well-cut, handsome features, and
her plainly dressed hair, almost black, had attracted her mistress from
the first.  She was refined, unobtrusive, merry-eyed, and just the kind
of bright companion and governess she required for her child.  She
noticed that although her dresses were well made there were tokens, in
more ways than one, that since her father's death she and her mother had
fallen upon evil days.

Fitzroy himself liked her.  There was something interesting in her
quaint broken English and in her foreign gestures that commended itself
to him in preference to the angular blue-stocking Miss Gardener, who had
recently left his wife's service.  So "Mademoiselle," as they called her
in preference to the rather ugly word "Signorina," quickly became as one
of the family, and within a week of her arrival she met that pompous
millionaire of eggs and bacon, Mr Morgan-Mason.

The latter became as much attracted by her as were the others, but she
exerted no effort to captivate or to gain admiration, merely acting her
part modestly as became the humble governess in a wealthy family.
Nevertheless she recollected the general's instructions, and more than
once, in the secrecy of her room, wrote to that address in Genoa
reporting her progress.

Mrs Charles Fitzroy, a pretty and rather extravagant woman, still on
the right side of forty, moved in a very good set, and entertained a
good deal at her house in Brook Street.  Her husband was a magnate in
the city, and the fact that Morgan-Mason was her brother gave her the
_entree_ to houses which would have otherwise been closed to her.
Fitzroy, a rather short, grey-bearded man with a florid countenance, had
risen from a clerk's stool to be what he was, and differed in little
particular from thousands of well-off city men who live in the West End
and enter the anteroom of society.

Nevertheless, through the influence of the white-waistcoated Member for
South-West Norfolk, a good many well-known people dined at Brook Street
from time to time, while to Morgan-Mason's smart gatherings at his house
or his dinners at the Carlton his sister and her husband were always
invited.

It was pleasant enough to mix with such people as surrounded her
employers, but, truth to tell, Filomena Nodari quickly found the post of
governess monotonous and irksome.  First of all, it was difficult for
her to preserve her unassuming character as a paid menial; secondly, she
hated children; thirdly, Bertha was a spoilt child, with no leaning
towards lessons; and fourthly, the small bare schoolroom at the top of
the house was a gloomy place in which to spend those bright spring days.
Still, she never complained.  She was well paid by the Minister of War,
and with a woman's love of intrigue, she had set herself to carefully
accomplish the difficult task which Borselli had given her.

She was fortunate, inasmuch as Mrs Fitzroy treated her with such
consideration.  Indeed, sometimes when there were no visitors, she would
invite her in to lunch with her, when they would generally talk French,
a language with which her mistress was well acquainted.

So well did she act her part that the governess was quickly voted a
treasure, and as Bertha was a particular favourite of her Uncle
Morgan-Mason, the latter became gradually interested in her.  Sometimes,
indeed, he would come up to the schoolroom while lessons were in
progress with an excuse to leave a packet of sweetmeats for his niece;
but Filomena, with her woman's shrewd intuition, knew that he came to
have a little chat with her.

He was inquisitive--always inquisitive.

One day as he sat with Bertha upon his knee in the schoolroom he asked
about her parentage.

"You are a native of Bologna--where the sausages come from?" he laughed.

Perhaps he sold that comestible at his many shops, she reflected, but
she answered in her broken English--

"Yes.  But just as none of straw hats are made in Leghorn, so there are
none of Bologna sausages made in Bologna."

"You must be already tired of life here in London after your beautiful
Italy?" he remarked.

"Ah! non," she assured him.  "I like your London--what leetle I have
seen of it.  But that is not very much.  I take Bertha for one walk in
the park, or down to what you call Kensington, every day.  And many
times we ascend to the roof of an omnibus.  But omnibuses are so
puzzling," she added, with a laugh.  "You never know where one goes.  We
always ascend and seet there till we come to the end of the voyage.  But
we make some amusing errors many times.  Only the day before to-day we
ascended on a 'bus outside the Gallery Nationale, where are the
fountains, paid twenty centimes--I mean two pennies--_eh bien_! the next
street-corner past a church they turned us off--the omnibus went no
farther!"

The millionaire laughed aloud, saying--

"It must have been a Royal Oak or Cricklewood 'bus coming home.  They go
no farther than Charing Cross."

"But oh!" she continued, "we go many time a long, long way--out into the
country--away from London.  Once we went on and on till I thought we
would never arrest--right on till we came to a small town down by the
river--Tweet-ham--Tweek-ham--the conductor called it, or something like
that.  Your English names are so very difficult.  There was an island in
the river, and an old church close by."

"Twickenham!  You mean Twickenham!" he exclaimed.  "Fancy your going so
far on an omnibus!  Your adventures, mademoiselle, must have been
amusing."

"Ah yes.  But poor madame!  We did not return till seven of the clock,
and she was fearing something had happened."

"Naturally," he said.  "But let me give you a word of advice,
mademoiselle.  Be very careful where you go.  London is not at all safe
for a foreign lady like yourself, more especially if her face is as
attractive as yours."

"Oh!" she laughed.  "Mine has no attraction, surely.  And I tell you,
m'sieur, that I am not in the least afraid."

He had expected her to be impressed by his flattery, but she was not.
On the contrary, she passed his remark as though it had never been
uttered, and continued to relate to him her impressions of London and
London life, some of which were distinctly humorous, for the streets of
our metropolis always strike the foreigner as full of quaint
incongruities, from the balancing of the hansom cab to the kilt of the
Highland soldier.

He found her conversation amusing and interesting.  She was somehow
different from the wide circle of women of his acquaintance, those
society dames who borrowed his money, ate his dinners, and gave tone to
his entertainments.  And this was exactly how she desired to impress
him.

As the weeks went on, the society swallows returned from wintering in
the South, and the London season began in earnest.  The millionaire, a
frequent visitor at his sister's house, often met the pleasant-faced
governess, who very cleverly succeeded in increasing her popularity
until she was well-known to Mrs Fitzroy's lady friends, and declared by
them all to be "a perfect treasure."

None knew, however, save little Bertha--who feared to speak lest
mademoiselle should punish her--of a rather curious incident which
occurred one morning as she was sitting with her charge in Kensington
Gardens.  A tall, dark-faced, middle-aged man with black moustache,
well-dressed in frock coat and silk hat, a fine diamond pin in his
scarf, approached, raised his hat, uttered some mysterious words in
Italian, and then took a seat at her side.

At first mademoiselle regarded the stranger with distrust, until he drew
a paper from his pocket and allowed her to read it.  Then, apparently
satisfied, she listened to all he told her.  But as it was in Italian,
the child could not understand.  She only noticed that mademoiselle
turned rather pale, and seemed to be expressing deep regret.

The dark-faced man spoke slowly and calmly, while, on her part, she
shrugged her shoulders and showed her palms, and responded with quick
volubility, while the child sat at her side regarding the stranger in
open-eyed wonder.

Presently, after a long argument, the man took from his pocket a small
tin box of matches which he gave to her.  Without examining it, she
transferred it quickly to her coat-pocket, and then, after a few parting
words, the man rose, raised his hat, and strode away towards Queen's
Gate, swinging his cane airily as he walked.

"Who was that?" inquired the child after he had gone.  "What did he give
you, mademoiselle?"

"Nothing that concerns you, dearest," was her governess's reply.
"Remember you must say nothing of that m'sieur--nothing, you recollect.
You must never mention him to your mother or to anyone, because if you
do I shall punish you very severely, and I shall never, never take you
out with me again.  You understand--eh?"

The child's face fell, and her eyes were fixed straight before her as
she answered, "Very well, mademoiselle.  I won't say anything."

"That's a good girl," her governess responded.  "Some day you shall have
a watch like your uncle's if you are very good," she added, for Bertha
was very fond of watches, and especially of Morgan-Mason's gold
repeater.  She liked to hear it chime upon its musical bell.

One afternoon a few days later Filomena watched from her window the
millionaire descend from his motor and enter the house.  First she
hurried into the schoolroom, where Bertha was sitting with the maid, and
then she leisurely descended to the drawing-room, where she found Mrs
Fitzroy and her brother talking together.

"Oh, m'sieur," laughed the governess, "Mademoiselle Bertha saw you
arrive, and has sent me to ask a favour."

"A favour!" he exclaimed.  "Of course, I always grant the young lady's
requests when she asks nicely."

"Mademoiselle wants to know if you will let her hear your watch.  Since
you showed it to her a fortnight ago she has allowed me no peace.  So I
promised I would come and ask of you."

"Certainly," was the millionaire's reply, taking his repeater and the
gold albert from his pocket.  "You know how to make it strike.  I showed
you the other day," he laughed as he handed it to her.

"I will be ve-ry careful of it, m'sieur, and will bring it back when
mademoiselle is satisfied.  She desires greatly one like it."

"Some day I'll give her one, when she's older," laughed Morgan-Mason
good-humouredly.

And then, when the door had closed behind her, his sister remarked--

"Mademoiselle is most devoted to Bertha.  So very different to Miss
Gardener.  She humours her in every way, and at the same time is a very
good teacher.  It is really wonderful how the child is improving."

"I quite agree, Maud.  She's an excellent girl--and I hope you pay her
well.  She deserves it."

And then they fell to discussing plans for a big dinner-party at the
Carlton on the following Friday.

Meanwhile, mademoiselle ran upstairs with the watch in her hand, first
to her own room, where she remained five minutes or so, and then took it
to the schoolroom, where she delighted her little pupil by making the
watch strike.

"Make it go again, mademoiselle," exclaimed little Bertha, delighted at
being allowed to hold it in her hand.  And again and again the governess
pressed the ring and caused it to chime, until at last she was compelled
to take it forcibly from the child's hand and carry it back again to the
grey-whiskered man in the drawing-room, returning a word of thanks as
she handed it back to him.

That same evening, after her charge had been put to bed, and during Mrs
Fitzroy's absence at Lady Claridge's dance, she went out and dropped
into the pillar-box at the corner of Grosvenor Square a small packet in
a strong linen-lined envelope addressed to "Giuseppe Gallo, Esq., care
of H.  Bird, Newsagent, 386 Westminster Bridge Road, S.E."

And then she returned to the little sitting-room set apart for her, and
smiled confidently to herself as she settled to read the _Tribuna_,
which her mother sent her regularly each day.

A week later the household at Brook Street was thrown into a state of
agitation and surprise when the vulgarian dashed round in a cab and
informed his sister of a most audacious entry made by thieves into his
splendid flat at Queen Anne's Mansions, and how they had turned it
topsy-turvy.  He had, it appeared, been absent, speaking for a
parliamentary candidate up at Leicester, and his valet had slept in the
flat alone, the other servants being on holiday, when during the night
burglars had entered by a window from some leads adjoining, and had
opened everything, even to his safe, and had apparently made a minute
examination of every private paper he possessed.

He had missed nothing, except a few cigars; but what puzzled the
detectives most was the manner in which safe, writing-table, and two
chests of drawers, which he always kept locked, had been opened.  Either
the thieves possessed all the keys--and this did not appear possible, as
they were all in the trusted valet's room--or else they possessed a
master-key to everything, the same as that which the Member of
Parliament wore upon his watch-chain.

The millionaire was furious.  He even spoke to the Home Secretary about
it when he met him in the lobby of the House.  But the manner in which
the safe had been opened was a complete mystery--a mystery to all except
to mademoiselle.

The vulgarian little suspected, when he so innocently lent his watch to
his niece, that the handsome governess had taken an impression in wax of
the small master-key upon the other end of his chain, or that she had
that very same evening posted the wax impression in the tin matchbox to
the clever secret agent of the Italian War Office--the man who with two
colleagues had come over from Paris specially, who had met Mademoiselle
in Kensington Gardens, and who was known at the newsagent's in the
Westminster Bridge Road as Giuseppe Gallo, a civil engineer, seeking
employment.

CHAPTER THIRTY FOUR.

IN CONFIDENCE.

General Arturo Valentini, commanding the Italian forces on the Alpine
frontier of France, sprang nimbly from an open cab, and helped out his
companion--a young lady in deep mourning, with her long crape veil down,
as is the custom in Italy.

The sentries at the big arched gateway of the military prison of Turin,
recognising the commanding officer, stood at the salute, and in
response, the short, dapper little man in his uniform and row of ribbons
on his breast raised his hand to his peaked cap quickly in
acknowledgment, and passed at once into the great bare courtyard
surrounded by the high, white, inartistic outer offices of the prison.

The soldiers off duty, who were lounging and gossiping, quickly drew
themselves up to attention as he crossed the courtyard to the office of
the governor, walking with his firm military gait and spurs clinking,
and his sword trailing over the stones.  He was one of the smartest and
best soldiers Italy possessed, a man who had shown an iron nerve in
those turbulent days of the struggle for unity, a man of rigid
discipline and yet of kindly heart.  The loss of his only son in the
reverses in Abyssinia two years before had left him without kith or kin,
and although he commanded a military district as large as England, and
was also in possession of a private income, he led a simple life at his
headquarters there in Turin, going into society as little as possible,
and ever working to improve the condition of his command.  His district
was the most important of any in Italy, for in case of hostilities it
would be the first point attacked; and as triumph usually lies with
those who strike the first blow, it was his object to enter France
effectively and on the instant, if the dogs of war were ever let loose.

With this end in view, he was untiring in his efforts to perfect the
defences of those many valleys and Alpine passes by which the enemy
might gain admittance if not perfectly secure.  In both summer and
winter his troops were ever manoeuvring in those high misty mountains,
skirmishing, throwing bridges over the deep gorges, and executing
evolutions always in secret, always fearing that the French might learn
their intentions in case of war.

That enormous army on the Italian frontier which one never sees, those
regiments upon regiments which dwell far up in the remote heights of the
Alps, away from the civilisation of the towns, are kept a mystery by the
Ministry of War.  They are there, ever ready, one knows, but where all
the hidden fortresses are situated, or where the death-dealing mines are
laid, are secrets which only the War Office and the commander know.

And it is those secrets which French spies are ever endeavouring to
discover.  Indeed, one of General Valentini's chief anxieties was the
ingenuity displayed by the emissaries of France, who crossed the
frontier in all kinds of disguises in the endeavour to learn the
military secrets.  Not a year went past but two or three of these spies
were arrested and condemned--and, be it said, the same state of things
existed on French territory, where the secret service of Italy, the men
from the bureau at headquarters there in Turin, boldly took their
liberty in their hands and went forth to gain the secrets of their
friends in the opposite valleys.

It required an officer of clear foresight, great tact, and wide
experience to control such a command, and in Arturo Valentini, the
short, stout, red-faced little man, Italy certainly had one in whom she
could repose the most absolute confidence.

In the office of the prison governor the pair stood for a few minutes,
until the dark-bearded, spectacled official entered, saluted the
commander, invited both him and his companion to seats, and settled
himself at his table.

"I wish to have an interview with Felice Solaro," the general explained.
"He is still here, I suppose?"

"Until Thursday next, when he is to be transferred to Gorgona."

"To Gorgona!" exclaimed the general in surprise; for the name of that
lonely penal island in the Mediterranean opposite Leghorn was sufficient
to cause him to shudder.  "Then it is fortunate we came to-day," he
added.

"But," hesitated the grave-faced man, looking inquiringly at his
company, "but of course this lady cannot see him.  It is against the
regulations, you know, general.  No prisoner can be seen by anyone
except yourself, save by order of the Minister of War."

"I know," was the old officer's reply.  "But this lady happens to be the
daughter of the Minister Morini."  Whereupon the governor bowed politely
at the figure, whose face he could not well distinguish through her
veil.

"You therefore need have no hesitation in allowing the interview," added
the general.  "If you wish, I'll sign an order for it now."

"No, certainly not.  If the lady is the Minister's daughter, it is of
course different."

"But this fact is confidential, recollect.  It must not appear in any
report that she has visited here."

The governor nodded.  It was not the first time that ladies, high born
and well-dressed some of them, had, on presenting orders from Camillo
Morini, had interviews with officers and men undergoing imprisonment for
various offences.

Solaro's crime was, however, the most serious of that of any prisoner
who had been incarcerated there since he had held the post of governor--
the unpardonable crime of treason, of selling his country into the hands
of its enemy!  He only knew that the court-martial had found the charges
proved, and therefore he was guilty.  It surprised him that the daughter
of the Minister should wish to see the man condemned of such an offence,
but he made no comment.  He only touched his bell and gave instructions
for the prisoner Solaro to be brought from his cell to the _parlatorio_,
or speaking-room.

"You of course wish, general, to see the prisoner in private," remarked
the governor, when the chief warder had gone.

"If you please," responded the old officer, in his sharp habit of
speech.

"Then I will not accompany you.  But I may tell you that the prisoner
has become much changed since his sentence.  He declares his innocence,
and sits pondering all day in idleness."

The general sighed, without replying.  They discussed the matter until
the chief warder returning they rose and followed him out across the
courtyard, through a small iron-bound door before which a sentry stood
at the salute, into the inner courtyard of the prison itself, the small,
dismal, bare stone place which formed the exercise-yard, while all
around were the small, barred, high-up windows of the cells.

They passed through a door, and walking along a short corridor entered a
small room divided in half by long iron bars from floor to ceiling, like
the cage of some ferocious animal in captivity.  Behind those bars stood
the bent, pale-faced figure of Felice Solaro, different indeed from the
straight, well-set-up man who had stood before the Minister of War and
defiantly broken his sword across his knee.  Dressed in an ill-made suit
of coarse canvas, the beard he had grown gave him an unkempt and
neglected appearance, the aspect of one in whom all hope was dead.

On recognising his visitors, he sprang forward to the bars.

"Ah! my general?" he cried.  "How good of you to come to me!"  And he
put out his thin white hand through the iron cage to greet the man who
had stood his friend and endeavoured to get his verdict reversed.  Then,
as the gallant old officer took his hand, he turned inquiringly towards
the figure in black.

She threw her long veil aside, and when he saw her face revealed he
gasped--

"Signorina Mary!  You--you have come here--_to see me_!"

Tears rose to her eyes and almost blinded her.  Recollections of the
past crowded upon her in that moment, and her heart was overburdened by
pity for him.

"The signorina has done her best to induce her father to sign the order
for your release, captain, but, alas!"--And the general sighed without
concluding his sentence.

"The Minister refuses!" said the unfortunate man behind the bars.  "And
yet I tell you I am innocent--innocent."

"I believe you are, captain.  If I did not, I should not interest myself
on your behalf.  But, unfortunately, the powers in Rome are greater than
mine.  They are sending you out to Gorgona, it seems."

"To Gorgona!" he gasped hoarsely, all the light dying from his pale,
emaciated face.  "Ah! then they mean to drive me mad by solitary
confinement.  My enemies have, indeed, triumphed!"

"But have courage, Felice," exclaimed Mary, speaking to him for the
first time and taking his thin hand.  "Surely one day you will have
justice done to you.  I cannot understand why my father so steadily
refuses to release you."

"Because he fears to do so," declared the condemned man.  "I am victim
of a foul intrigue in which that woman Filomena was one who conspired
against me."

"And yet you loved her," remarked the girl reproachfully.

"Ah!  I believe I did.  I know that to you I ought not to mention her,
signorina.  But forgive me.  Do you recollect that night in Rome--at the
ball at the Colonna Palace--when I asked you a question?"

"I do," she responded, now very pale.  "I was younger, and did not know
my own mind then.  I thought--I thought I loved you.  It was our
flirtation that has brought you to this.  I am to blame for everything."

"No, no," he declared.  "It is I who committed the indiscretion of
falling in love with you when I knew that I, a poor captain, could never
hope to marry the daughter of the Minister of War."

She sighed, and tears welled again in her dark brown eyes.  The general
at her side was no woman's man, but even he became affected at this
meeting.

"They allege that you sold to France a copy of the mobilisation scheme,"
she went on.  "They say that I purposely locked you in my father's
library at Rome for three hours in order that you might have access to
the secret documents which were in a drawer in his writing-table."

The prisoner, smiling bitterly, answered--

"Let them allege whatever it pleases them; they cannot make my unjust
punishment greater than it is.  You yourself know that the charge is an
unjust one--and my general knows that I would never betray Italy!"

"But to whom do you attribute this ingenious plot by which you have been
made the scapegoat of someone else's offence?" asked Mary, looking
straight into his deep-sunken eyes.  "That the plans of the Tresenta as
well as the copy of the mobilisation scheme have reached the French
Intelligence Department is proved beyond doubt.  Our secret service in
Paris has ascertained that."

"I have enemies--bitter ones," he answered in a strange tone, his eyes
fixed upon her.  "They fear me, and have taken this course in order to
close my mouth--in order to prevent me making certain revelations that
would effect their ruin."

"But who are they?" she demanded.  "The general has brought me here on
purpose to put this question to you.  If we are aware of all the facts,
we may be able, after all, to rescue you from the horrors of Gorgona."

The pale-faced man shook his unkempt head sorrowfully, his lips pressed
together, his eyes upon hers.

"No.  You can never secure my release," he declared, with despair.
"They dare not give me my liberty for their own sakes.  Jules Dubard and
that Englishman George Macbean will take good care that I never come
forth to denounce them."

"George Macbean?" she gasped open-mouthed, all the colour fading from
her cheeks.  "Do you know him?  Is he actually one of those who is
responsible for this?"

For answer, the man behind the bars clenched his teeth and nodded in the
affirmative.

CHAPTER THIRTY FIVE.

THE CAPTAIN IS OUTSPOKEN.

"But tell me," cried Mary, utterly amazed at the unhappy man's startling
allegations, "do you actually declare that Dubard and Mr Macbean have
conspired in order to throw the opprobrium upon you?"

"I do," he answered in a low, hard tone.  "I am convinced of it.
Macbean is an Englishman living in London--secretary to an English
deputy named Morgan-Mason."

"He is a friend of mine," she remarked quietly.  "I know him quite
well."

"Then do not trust him," Solaro urged.  "He is the--" But he hesitated,
as though fearing to make any direct charge against one who was her
friend.

"The what?" she inquired eagerly.

For a few moments he remained silent.

"He is the man who, with Dubard, was the cause of my downfall," he
responded, although from his hesitating tone she felt assured that those
words were not what he had first intended to utter.

"And Dubard?" she asked, her face now very grave.

"What use is it to discuss either of them?" he said bitterly.  "I am
their victim--that is all."

"But with what motive?" she asked, bewildered at this revelation.  "What
connection can Mr Macbean possibly have with these false scandalous
charges against you?"

"Ah! the motive is more than I can tell," he declared.  "I can only
surmise it."

"But there surely must be some motive!" she remarked, at the same time
recollecting what she had learnt, that the information furnished by
Dubard formed the basis of the charges intended to be levelled by the
Socialists against her father.

"I have never had an opportunity of ascertaining it," he said.  "I
would, however, desire to warn you most strongly against that man
Macbean."

Mary remained silent.  What he had said puzzled and mystified her.  His
words were not prompted by motives of jealousy.  That was impossible,
for he was unaware of Macbean's presence in Rome.  As far as she knew,
the two men had never been acquainted--the one an officer in garrison in
the Alps, and the other living in far-off London.  She endeavoured to
induce him to speak more plainly, but it was evident that her
acknowledgment that Macbean was her friend prevented him from opening
his mind concerning him.

All her sympathies being with the imprisoned man, she felt a distinct
suspicion arising within her concerning the young Englishman.--She
wondered whether after all he had really schemed to obtain an
appointment in the Ministry; if his present position was only in
furtherance of some sinister object?

She spoke of Dubard, but the prisoner was equally silent concerning him.

"What I can tell you about either of them amounts to nothing without
proof, and without my liberty I cannot obtain that.  They know it!" he
said angrily.  "They know that while I am here, in prison, my lips are
sealed!"

"But it is infamous!" exclaimed the red-faced old general.  "If you were
the victim of a plot laid by these two fellows, whoever they are, the
matter ought to be sifted to the bottom.  I don't believe you are
guilty, Solaro!  I told His Excellency the Minister so!"

"Ah, my dear general, you have been my best friend," declared the man
now clothed in sacking in lieu of a uniform.  "But your efforts must all
be unavailing.  They are sending me to the loneliness of Gorgona, that
place where many a better man than myself has been driven insane by
solitude.  They know that on Gorgona I shall not live very long--indeed,
they will take very good care of that."

"They--who are they?" inquired Mary quickly.

"My enemies."

"Mr Macbean and Dubard, you mean?"

"No, others--others I need not name," he responded vaguely, with a
careless shrug of his shoulders.

"But if you are the victim of a plot it must have been a most elaborate
one, for the mass of evidence against you seems overwhelming.  What
object could the conspirators have had in view?  Were they friends of
yours?"

"Yes--once.  Their object was probably not of their own--but that of
others," he added.

His words left the impression upon her that his conviction was part of
the elaborate scheme of Angelo Borselli.  And yet was not that very man
now urging her to secure his release!

The affair was increased in mystery a thousandfold.

"Then if Mr Macbean was only slightly known to you why should he have
plotted to secure your ruin and imprisonment?" she queried in eagerness.

"As I have already said, they were both in peril as long as I was at
liberty.  It was to their own interests--indeed for their own safety--
that I should be sent here."

"What do they fear?"

"They fear what I could reveal--the facts that I could prove if I were
not held here a prisoner," he said bitterly.

"And would those facts be strange ones?"

"They would be startling--they would create a sensation throughout
Italy.  They would throw a new light on certain affairs connected with
the Ministry of War that would come as a thunderclap upon the people."

"You defied the Minister, remember," his general remarked gravely.

"I know.  I lost my head.  I broke my sword and threw the pieces at his
feet in defiance.  I was foolish--ah! very foolish.  Only I was angry at
his refusal to order a revision of my trial."

"Yes," the general admitted.  "You have prejudiced yourself in His
Excellency's eyes, I fear.  Your indignation was but natural, but it was
ill-advised at that moment.  The Minister Morini is not the man to brook
defiance in that manner."

"But I do defy him still!" cried the desperate man, turning to the
tragic figure in black.  "Although he is your father, signorina, I
repeat that he has done me an injustice--and that injustice is because
he, like the others, fears to give me my liberty!"

"But if you were released--if I could manage to obtain for you a
pardon--would you make the revelations of which you have spoken?"

For some minutes he was silent, thinking deeply, apparently reflecting
upon the consequences of speaking the truth.  Then he answered--

"No.  I think not."

"Why not?"

"Because--well, because there are one or two facts of which I have no
absolute proof."

"But you are certain of Dubard's connection with the false charges
against you?"

"Positive.  He arranged with Filomena Nodari for _my_ betrayal."

"But why?  I cannot see the motive, and yet he must have had one!"

"In his own interests, as well as those of the Englishman."

"You mean Macbean?"

"Yes--the betrayer!"

Mary's heart beat quickly.  She could not grasp his meaning, yet he
refused to tell her plainly the whole of the strange circumstances,
apparently fearing to give her pain because she had declared herself to
be a friend of the Englishman.  He was, of course, in ignorance of their
friendship, just as he was in ignorance of her engagement to Jules
Dubard.

She was in a dilemma--a dilemma absolute and complete.  What Borselli
had declared--namely, that the unfortunate captain was in possession of
some facts which he would prove if he regained his liberty--seemed to be
the truth.  Yet if she secured his liberty by pressing her father to
pardon him, she would only be deliberately giving to his political
enemies a weapon whereby they might hound him from office.  While,
further, he refused to make her a direct promise to tell the truth, or
make the revelations--even if liberated.

What could she do?  How could she act?  His allegations held her amazed,
speechless.  He had declared himself to be the victim of the ingenious
conspiracy formed by the Frenchman and by George Macbean--the latter, of
all men!  The whole affair was an enigma that was inexplicable.

That Macbean had entered into a plot against him was utterly beyond her
comprehension.  He was essentially a Londoner, and had surely no
interest whatsoever in the Alpine defences of Italy!  Dubard was
certainly his friend.  Had he not, indeed, told her so?  He had, only a
fortnight before, expressed a hope that Dubard would soon return from
the Pyrenees.

And yet that broken, desperate man--the man with whom she had had that
pleasant flirtation during one Roman season--had fallen their victim!

But if so, why was Borselli now anxious that he should be freed in order
to make his revelations against the very man Dubard who was his intimate
friend--the man who it was said had furnished the Opposition with
facts--most of them false--regarding her father's political
shortcomings?

She tried to reason it all out, but became the more and more utterly
bewildered.

The reason of the captain's denunciation of George Macbean was a
mystery.  When he mentioned the Englishman's name she had noticed a
flash in his deep-set eyes betokening a deadly, deep-rooted hatred.  And
yet it was upon this very man that all her thoughts and reflections had
of late been centred.

As they were alone in that grim, gloomy room with its barred partition--
the governor having granted them a private conference--she explained how
the Socialists had endeavoured to make capital out of the charges
against him with a view to obtaining her father's dismissal from office.
She made no mention of her compact with Dubard or her engagement to
him, but merely explained how at the eleventh hour, while Montebruno was
on his feet in the Chamber of Deputies, the mysterious note had been
placed in his hand which had had the effect of arresting the charges he
was about to pour forth.

Solaro listened to her in silence while she gave a description of the
scene in the Chamber, and related certain details of the conspiracy
which she had learned through her father, the details gathered in secret
by Vito Ricci.

"Ah?" he sighed at last, having listened open-mouthed.  "It is exactly
as I expected.  Your father's enemies are mine.  Having drawn me safely
into their net, they intend to use my condemnation as proof of the
insecurity of the frontier and the culpability of the Minister of War."

"But if they attack the Minister they must attack me personally?"
exclaimed the general in surprise; for he had been in ignorance of the
widespread intrigue to hold the Ministry of War up to public ridicule
and condemnation.  "As the frontier is under my command, I am personally
responsible for its security?"

"Exactly," Solaro said in a somewhat quieter tone.  "If His Excellency
had ordered a revision of my trial, I should most certainly have been
proved innocent, and that being so, the Socialists would have had no
direct charge which they could level against the Ministry.  But as it
is, I stand here condemned, imprisoned as a traitor, and therefore my
general is culpable, and above him the Minister himself."

"My father should have pardoned you long ago.  It is infamous!"  Mary
declared, with rising anger.  "By refusing your appeal for a new trial
he placed himself in this position of peril!"

"Had I been released I would have given into his hands certain
information by which he could have crushed the infamous intrigue against
him," said the man behind the bars in a low, desperate tone.  "But now
it is too late for a revision of my sentence.  Our enemies have
triumphed.  I am to be sent to Gorgona, sent to my death, while the plot
against His Excellency still exists, and the _coup_ will be made against
him at the very moment when he feels himself the most secure."  Then,
watching the pale face, he added suddenly, "Forgive me, signorina, for
speaking frankly like this; he is, I recollect, your father.  But he has
done me a grave injustice; he could have saved me--saved himself--if he
had cared to do so."

"But you have said that my father fears to give you your liberty?"  She
remarked.  "If that is so, it is fear, and not disinclination, that has
prevented him granting you a pardon?"

"It is both," he declared hoarsely.

"But is there no one else who could assist you--who would expose these
enemies and their plot?" she asked.

"No one," he answered.  "The most elaborate preparations were made to
set the trap into which I unfortunately fell.  I was watched in Paris,
in Bologna, in Turin--in garrison and out of it.  My every movement was
noted, in order that it might be misconstrued.  That Frenchman who
struck up an acquaintance with me in Paris, and who afterwards lent me
money, was in the pay of my enemies; and from that all the damning
evidence against me was constructed with an ingenuity that was fiendish.
I, an innocent man, was condemned without being given any opportunity
of proving my defence!  Ask Dubard, or the Englishman.  Ask them to tell
the truth--if they dare!"

"But tell me more of Mr Macbean," she cried eagerly.  "What do you
allege against him?"

"I make no allegations," he answered in a low, changed voice.  "I can
suffer in silence.  Only when you meet that man tell him that Felice
Solaro, from his prison, sends him his warmest remembrances.  Then watch
his face--that is all.  His countenance will tell you the truth."

CHAPTER THIRTY SIX.

IN THE TWILIGHT HOUR.

For Mary Morini the world was full of base intrigue and
uncharitableness, of untruth and false friendship.  Four years ago she
had returned to Italy from that quiet school at Broadstairs to find
herself plunged suddenly into a circle of society, torn by all the
conflicting failings of the human heart.  The world which she had
believed to be so full of beauty was only a wild, stormy waste, whereon
each traveller was compelled to fight and battle for reputation and for
life.  Already world-weary before her time, she was nauseated by the
hollow shams about her, tired of the glare of those gilded salons, and
appalled by the intrigues on every hand--the intrigues which had for
their object her father's ruin and the sacrifice of all her love, her
youth, and happiness.

Often she asked herself if there could be any element of good remaining
in such a world as hers.  She tried it by the test of her religious
principle and found it selfish, indolent, and vain, attracting and
swallowing up all who lived within the sphere of its contaminating
influence.  She had believed herself adapted to the exercise of her
affections, that she might love, and trust, and hope to the utmost of
her wishes; but, alas! hers had been a rude awakening, and the stern
realities of life were to her a cruel and bitter revelation.

In her Christian meekness she constantly sought Divine guidance, even
though compelled to live amid that gay whirl of Rome; for the date of
her marriage was rapidly approaching, the day when the man to whom she
had bartered herself in exchange for her father's life would come
forward and claim her.

The season, as society knew it, was far advanced, and although her mind
was filled by those grave suspicions conjured up by Solaro's
allegations, she frequently met and talked with George Macbean.  His
duties as her father's secretary took him to the palace a great deal,
and sometimes of an evening they met at various official functions to
which the young Englishman had also been bidden.

Out of the very poverty and the feebleness of her life, out of sheer
desperation, she became drawn towards him, and the bond of friendship
became still more closely cemented, even though those suspicions ever
arose within her.  He was Dubard's friend--he had admitted that to her--
and as Dubard's friend she mistrusted him.

She had no friend in whom she could confide, or of whom she might ask
advice.  She exchanged few such confidences with her mother, while she
was unable to reveal to her father her secret visit to Solaro's prison
for fear of his displeasure.  It was at this crisis of her young life
that she felt the absolute want of a participator in her joys, a
recipient of her secrets, and a soother of her sorrows, and it was this
sense of utter loneliness which rendered the young Englishman's society
so welcome to her.

Weeks had passed since her painful interview with poor Solaro.  The dull
burden of accumulated sorrows hung heavily upon her.  She had begun
afresh.  She had made a fresh dedication of her heart to God.  She had
commenced her patient work of unravelling the mystery of the great
intrigue by which to save her father, and to escape herself from the
fate to which she was consigned--she had commenced the work as though it
had never been undertaken before, supported by Christian faith, and ever
striving not to prejudge the man whose friendship had now become so
necessary to her existence.

What the unfortunate prisoner had told her, however, had opened her eyes
to many plain facts, the chief of them being that Borselli had, by his
suggestion that she should secure the captain's release, endeavoured to
induce her to bring ruin upon her own father.  For the Minister to sign
a decree of pardon now was impossible.  Such an action must inevitably
cause his downfall; therefore it was necessary that the captain should
remain in prison, although innocent.

In Rome a sudden tranquillity had fallen upon the face of that
ever-changing political world around the throne.  Mary, who was seen at
every ball and at every official dinner, still retained her golden and
exuberant youth, her joyous step, her sweet smile, and the world
believed her very happy.  She was to marry Jules Dubard.  But at home,
in the hours of loneliness in her own room, there fell upon her the grim
tragedy of it all, and she shed tears, bitter tears, because she was
still fettered, still unable to discover the truth.

Two years ago she had possessed all the freshness of unwearied nature,
the glow of health, that life-spring of all the energies of thought and
action--the power to believe as well as to hope--the earnestness of zeal
unchilled by disappointment, the first awakening of joy, the clear
perception of a mind unbiassed in its search of truth, the fervour of an
untroubled soul.  But alas! the world had now disappointed her.  Like
Felice Solaro, like her father, she too had fallen a victim of those
unscrupulous persons whose base craft and low cunning were alike
mysterious and unfathomable.

George Macbean, watching her as closely as he did, realised the gradual
change in her, and was much puzzled.  True, she wore the same
magnificent Paris-made gowns, was as humorous and irresponsible, and
laughed as gaily as she had done in those summer days in England.  Yet
sometimes, as they sat alone, he detected that burden of grief and
sadness that oppressed her mind.  Soon she was to marry Dubard, yet her
attitude was by no means that of the self-satisfied bride.  Ignorant of
the bitter reflections within her, he was, of course, much mystified at
those gloomy, despairing words that sometimes involuntarily fell from
her lips.  He did not know, as she so vividly realised, that the day she
married Jules Dubard her beloved father would again be at the mercy of
those who sought his downfall.

Her Excellency had suggested a visit to Paris for the trousseau, but
this she had declined.  She had no desire for the gaiety which a visit
to the French capital would entail.  Therefore all the dresses and
_lingerie_ were being made in Florence and Rome; a magnificent
trousseau, which a princess of the blood might have envied, for Camillo
Morini never spared any expense where his daughter was concerned.

Yet she scarcely looked at the rich and costly things as they arrived in
huge boxfuls, but ordered Teresa to put them aside, sighing within
herself that the world was so soon to make merry over the great tragedy
of her life.

Dubard was still at Bayonne, detained on business connected with his
estate.  He wrote frequently, and, much against her own inclination, she
was compelled to reply to his letters.  More than one person in her own
set remarked upon the prolonged absence of the popular young Frenchman
who had become so well known in the Eternal City, but only one person
guessed the true reason--and that person was George Macbean.

Late one afternoon she had been driving on the Pincio, as was her habit
each day.  She was alone, her mother being too unwell to go out, and
just as the _passeggiata_, or fashionable promenade, was over, she
passed the young Englishman walking alone.  She bowed and drove on, but
presently stopped her victoria, alighted, and telling the coachman that
she would walk home, dismissed him.

Most of the carriages had already left that beautiful hill-garden from
the terraces of which one obtains such wonderful panoramas of the
ancient city, and it being nearly six o'clock, the promenaders were now
mostly Cookites, the women bloused and tweed-skirted, and the men in
various costumes of England, from the inevitable blue serge suit to the
breeches and golf-cap of "the seaside,"--people with whom she was
unacquainted.  In a few moments they met, and he turned happily and
walked in her direction.

"I'm cramped," she declared.  "I've been in the carriage nearly three
mortal hours, first paying calls with father, and then here alone.  I
saw you, so it was a good opportunity of getting a walk.  You go to the
Princess Palmieri's to-night, I suppose?"

"Yes, Her Highness has sent me a card," he answered--"thanks to your
father, I suppose."  As she walked beside him, in a beautiful gown of
pale dove grey with a large black hat, he glanced at her admiringly and
added, "I saw in to-day's _Tribuna_ that the count is expected back in
two or three days.  Have you had news of him?"

"I received a letter yesterday--from Biarritz.  He is with his aunt, who
is very unwell, and is paying a dutiful visit before coming here."

In silence they walked on, passing the water-clock and descending the
hill until they came to that small piazza with the stone balustrade that
affords such a magnificent vista of the ancient city.  Here they halted
to enjoy the view, as the tourists were enjoying it.  The wonderful
Eternal City with its hundred towers lay below them in the calm golden
mist of evening.  It was a scene she had looked upon hundreds of times,
yet at that moment she was attracted by the crowd of "personally
conducted" who stood at the stone balustrade and gazed away in the
direction of where the huge dome of St Peter's loomed up through the
haze.  Like many a cosmopolitan, she took a mischievous delight in
mingling with a crowd of English tourists and hearing their comments
upon things Italian--remarks that were often drily humorous.  She stood
at her companion's side, chatting with him while the light faded, the
glorious afterglow died away, and the tourists, recollecting the hour of
their respective _tables d'hote_, descended the hill to the city.  And
then, when they were alone, he turned to her and, with a touch of
bitterness in his voice, said--

"I suppose very soon you will leave Rome and live in Paris.  Has the
count made any plans?"

"We live this summer at the chateau," was her answer.  "The winter he
intends to spend on the Riviera."

"And Rome will lose you!" he exclaimed in regret.  "At the Countess
Bardi's last night they were discussing it, and everyone expressed
sorrow that you should leave them."

She sighed deeply, and in her eyes he thought he detected the light of
tears.

"For many things I shall really not be sorry to leave Rome," she
answered blankly.  "Only I wish I were going to live in dear old
England.  I have no love for Paris, and the artificiality of the Riviera
I detest.  It is the plague-spot of Europe.  What people can really see
in it beyond the attraction of gambling I never can understand.  The
very atmosphere is hateful to anyone with a spark of self-respect."

They were leaning on the old grey stonework, their faces turned to the
darkening valley where wound the Tiber, the centre of the civilisation
of all the ages, the great misty void wherein the lights were already
beginning to twinkle.

Furtively he glanced at her countenance, and saw upon her white brow a
look of deep, resigned despair.  He loved her--this beautiful woman who
was to sacrifice herself to the man who he knew had entrapped her, and
yet whom he dare not denounce for fear of incriminating himself.  He,
who worshipped her--who loved her in truth and in silence as no man had
ever loved a woman--was compelled to stand by and witness the tragedy!
Night after night, when he thought of it as he paced his room, he
clenched his hands in sheer despair and cried to himself in agony.

Dubard was to be her husband--Jules Dubard, the man who, knowing of his
presence in Rome, feared to return to claim her as his wife!

"You are very silent, Miss Mary!" he managed to say at last, watching
her pale, beautiful face set away towards the dark valley.

"I was thinking," she answered, turning slowly, facing him, and looking
straight into his eyes.

"Of what?"

"Shall I tell you frankly?"

"Certainly," he said, smiling.  "You are always frank with me, are you
not?"

"Well, I was thinking of a man who was once my friend--a man whom I
believe you have cause to remember," she replied in a meaning tone--"a
man named Felice Solaro!"

"Felice Solaro!" he gasped, quickly starting back, his cheeks blanching
as he repeated the name.  "If Felice Solaro is a friend of yours, Miss
Mary, then he has probably told you the truth--the ghastly truth?" he
cried hoarsely, as his face fell.  "He has revealed to you the mystery
concerning General Sazarac!  Tell me--tell me what allegation has he
made against me?"

CHAPTER THIRTY SEVEN.

AT ORTON COURT AGAIN.

George Macbean stood at the window of the rector's little study at
Thornby, gazing out across the level lawn.

Outside, the typical old-fashioned English garden, bright in the June
sunlight, was a wealth of flowers, while the old house itself was
embowered in honeysuckle and roses.  Beyond the tall box-hedge stood the
ancient church-tower, square and covered with ivy, round which the rooks
were lazily circling against the blue and cloudless sky.  Through the
open diamond-paned window came the fragrant perfume of the flowers, with
a breath of that open English air that was to him refreshing after the
dust and turmoil of the Eternal City.

"Getting tired of being a cosmopolitan--eh?" laughed the big,
good-humoured man, turning to him.  "I thought you would."

"No.  I'm not altogether tired," he answered.  "But a change is
beneficial to us all, you know.  I suppose my wire surprised you?"

"Yes, and no.  Of course I heard three weeks ago that the Morinis were
returning to Orton for the wedding, and I naturally expected you to put
in an appearance.  What a lucky dog you are to have got such an
appointment!  And yet you grumble at your bread and cheese.  Look at me!
Two sermons, Sunday school, religious instruction, mothers' meeting,
coal club--same thing each week, year in, year out--and can't afford to
do the swagger and keep a curate!  I never get a change, except now and
then a day with the hounds or a dinner from some charitably disposed
person.  But what about the marriage?  We all thought it was to be in
Italy.  He's French and she's Italian, so to be married in England they
must have had no end of formalities."

"Mary is a Protestant, remember--and a Cabinet Minister can do
anything--so they are to be married in Orton church," he added in a
strange tone, his eyes turned towards the sunlit lawn, over which old
Hayes, the groom-gardener, was running the machine.

"I ought to have called to congratulate her, but as you know I only
returned last night from doing duty over at Eye.  I ought to drive over
after tea.  Is the count there?"

"No.  When we left Rome I came straight to London on some urgent private
business of His Excellency's, and they remained a week in Paris, where
Dubard was--to complete the trousseau, I suppose."

"It is one of Mary's whims to be married by special licence by the Canon
at Orton, I've heard.  Is that so?" asked Sinclair.

The young man nodded.  He had no desire to discuss the tragedy, for he
knew well that the marriage was a loveless one, and although his own
affection had been unspoken, he was beside himself with grief and
despair.  He, who knew the truth, yet dare not utter one single word to
save her!

For ten days he had been in London, staying at his old chambers with
Billy Grenfell, and transacting business at the Italian
Consulate-General connected with the formalities of the marriage,
formalities which were expedited because his employer was Minister of
War.  Paragraphs had crept into the press, the ladies' papers had
published Mary's portrait, and the marriage, because it was to take
place in a village church, was called a "romantic" one.

George Macbean smiled bitterly when he recollected how much more of
tragedy than romance there was in it.  He adored her; for months her
face had been the very sun of his existence, and in those recent weeks
they had become so closely associated that even her mother had looked
somewhat askance at the secretary's attentions, to which she had seemed
in no way averse.  A bond of sincerest sympathy had drawn them together.
She was in no way given to flirtation; not even her bitterest enemies,
those jealous women who were always ready to create scandal and invent
untruths about her, could charge her with that.  No.  She had accepted
George's warm, platonic friendship in the spirit it was given, at the
same time ever struggling to stifle down that strange and startling
allegation which Felice Solaro had made against him.

The very world seemed united against her, for even in George Macbean,
the man whom she had believed to be the ideal of honesty and
uprightness, she dared not put her absolute trust.

"The Court is full of visitors," George remarked a few minutes later,
"so I thought I'd come here and stay.  I can drive over there every day.
Next week we go back to Rome again for another month, and then his
Excellency returns on leave to England."

"You're cultivating quite an official air, my dear boy," exclaimed the
rector, refilling his pipe and glad to change the subject of
conversation.  "Your letters to me headed `Ministry of War--First
Division' are most imposing documents.  I'd like to have a trot round
Rome with you.  I've never been farther than Boulogne--
seven-and-sixpence worth of sea-sickness from Folkestone--and I don't
think much of foreign parts, if that's a specimen of them."

Macbean smiled at his uncle's bluff remarks, and then fell to giving him
some description of the Minister's palace in Rome, and of his position
in the society of the Eternal City.

After early tea Hayes brought round the trap, and the two men drove over
to Orton Court, where, on entering, there were signs everywhere for the
coming event, which, now that it was known who Camillo Morini really
was, created much excitement throughout the countryside.  The decision
that the marriage should take place in England had been quite a sudden
one--but, curiously enough, it had been at Dubard's own instigation.
George had gathered that fact, and it held him mystified.  The
bridegroom had some hidden reason in making that suggestion.

The instant the rector saw Mary he recognised what a change had taken
place in her.  Within himself he asked whether it was due to the secret
that his nephew had confessed to him.  Standing in the long,
old-fashioned drawing-room, with its big bowls of roses, he apologised
for not calling earlier, and congratulated her; whereupon she responded
in a quiet, inert voice--

"It is very kind of you, Mr Sinclair--very kind indeed.  I don't know
if you've had a card, it has all been done in such a rush, but you will
come on Thursday, won't you?"

He accepted with pleasure, and glancing at his nephew, saw that the
young man's face told its own sad tale.

"Has not the count arrived?" asked Macbean of her.

"No.  I had a wire this morning.  He leaves Paris to-night, so he'll be
here after luncheon to-morrow."

Leaving Sinclair with Mary, George went along to the study, where he
found the Minister busy with some important despatches which had just
arrived by special messenger from the Italian Embassy in London,
therefore he was compelled to seat himself at the table opposite and
assist his chief.

So long did the correspondence take that the rector and his nephew were
invited to remain to dine informally, George being placed, to his great
delight, next the unhappy woman whom he so dearly loved.  It was the
last time he would dine with her, he told himself during the meal, and
through his brain crowded memories of those happy hours spent at her
side amid the brilliant glitter of the salons in Rome when, although
hundreds were around him, he had only eyes for her, and her alone.  And
he, by that relentless fate that held him silent, was compelled to stand
by and watch her noble self-sacrifice!

CHAPTER THIRTY EIGHT.

"SILENCE FOR SILENCE!"

On the following night, as eleven o'clock slowly chimed from the pointed
steeple of Orton church, George Macbean was walking along the narrow
path that led from the highroad to Rugby first across the wide
cornfields and then through the small dark wood until he reached the
river bank.  Here he halted at a low stile which barred the path, and
waited.

Before him ran the river grey and placid beneath the clouded moon,
behind him the pitch darkness of the covert where hounds were always
certain of finding a fox or two in the course of the season.  The cry of
a night bird, the rustling of a rat among the rushes, and the distant
howl of a dog up at the village were the only sounds that broke the
quiet.  Not a breath of wind ruffled the surface of the deep stream, not
a leaf was stirred until of a sudden there came the sound of footsteps,
and the dark figure of a man loomed up against the misty grey.

"Eh bien?" inquired the man in French as he approached; for the
new-comer was none other than Jules Dubard.  He was staying at an hotel
in Rugby, and they had met that afternoon under Morini's roof, greatly
to the Frenchman's surprise.  But he had managed to conceal his chagrin,
to greet the secretary so that none should suspect the truth, and now,
at Macbean's suggestion, had come forth to meet him alone.

The pair were once again face to face.

"And well?"  George asked, speaking in the same language the Frenchman
had used.  "It is I who should demand the reason of your presence here,
m'sieur."

"Ah, my dear friend," replied the other, "this is a meeting very
fortunate for me, for it enables me to say something which I have long
wanted to say."

"I have no wish to hear you.  I only demand the reason you are here--a
guest in the Minister's house."

"You surely know," he laughed airily.  "Am I not to marry Mademoiselle
Marie?"

"You have schemed to do so, I know."

"Well, well," he remarked philosophically, "we are both schemers--are we
not, my dear George?  In scheming, however, so very little is certain.
But in this world one thing is certain--namely, that Mademoiselle Marie
will become Comtesse Dubard at three o'clock on the day after
to-morrow."

The two men were standing quite close to each other, and in that grey
light could readily watch the expression of each other's faces.

"It is your intention, no doubt," answered Macbean.  "But during the
month I have been in Rome I have not been idle.  I have learned how
Angelo Borselli still holds you in the hollow of his hand, and how
cleverly he has made you his cat's-paw to ruin and disgrace Morini.
Listen, and if I speak an untruth deny it.  Ever since the Sazarac
affair you and Borselli have actively conspired against Camillo Morini.
The Under-Secretary, with your assistance, had arranged a political
_coup_, but in order to compel Miss Mary to give her consent to this
scandalous marriage, you have induced Borselli to stay his hand.  You
are forcing her to marry you, in order to save her father from ruin and
probably from suicide, well knowing, however, what Borselli's intentions
are, as soon as she is your wife and you have obtained her _dot_!  You
intend--"

"Look here, hound!  Did you ask me to come here to insult me?" cried the
Frenchman in fury, advancing a pace in a threatening manner.

"You have said you have something to say to me," was his response.  "But
before you say it, I wish to make plain what are my intentions."

"And what are they, pray?"

"I intend to prevent Mary Morini making this sacrifice," was his quiet,
determined reply.

"You love her yourself!  Friends of mine have watched you in Rome.
Although I was absent, I knew quite well that you were in her father's
service; but believe me, I was in no manner anxious, first because of
your menial position--a mere secretary--and secondly, because of the
past."

"The past!" cried Macbean.  "The past!  Surely you ought not to speak of
the past--you, to whom the family of Morini, the father of the innocent
woman you have schemed to marry, owes the peril in which he now exists.
You shall never marry her!" he added angrily.  "Never!"

There was a brief silence, then Dubard responded with a defiant laugh.

"You cannot prevent it, my friend."

"But I will."

"And expose yourself?"

"I shall at least expose a man who has marked down a pure and innocent
woman as his victim."

Dubard laughed again, saying--

"Of course.  You've fallen in love with her, and are jealous that she
should become my wife!"

"I am her friend," he declared.  "And I will protect her."

"And allow the charges to be made against her father."

"They will be brought whether you marry her or not--you know that quite
well.  I have not been private secretary to Morini without discovering
the insecurity of his official position, and the deadly rivalry and
crafty cunning of Angelo Borselli.  Again, answer me one question--why
is Felice Solaro, your friend, condemned as a traitor?"

"He doesn't concern me in the least," was the other's reply.

"But the matter concerns me," Macbean went on.  "Recollect how
studiously you have avoided me ever since August, when I recognised you
driving over in that road yonder--when an evil fate threw me again
across your path."

"You appear, then, to believe that I am in fear of you?" he said.  "But
let me tell you that I have no such anxiety whatsoever.  Try and prevent
my marriage--but recollect it will be at your own peril?"

George knew well at what his enemy had hinted--he knew too well that if
he uttered one word it would bring upon him a deadly peril--that he
would be hurled to ruin and disgrace.  Nevertheless, he was determined
to sacrifice himself rather than all that he held most dear should be
snatched away from him by that man whose very existence and position was
an adventure and a fraud.

But feeing the Frenchman determinedly, he said--

"The reason I invited you out here was to tell you frankly my intention,
and so allow you opportunity to leave the place before the truth is
known.  I intend to go to-morrow to the Minister and tell him exactly
the true state of affairs.  He is in utter ignorance that it was you who
stayed the adverse tide against him in the Chamber of Deputies--in
ignorance that you made that vile, despicable agreement with his poor
unfortunate daughter.  When I have spoken we shall see whether he will
allow the marriage to take place."

"And when you have spoken we shall also see whether he will not hear my
own story."

"I am prepared for any allegation you may make against me," responded
George.  "You may ruin me--you may do what you and your friends will--
but you shall never marry Mary Morini!"

"I defy you!"

"Very well--we shall see."

"Tell the Minister what you choose, but remember that if you endeavour
to create friction between us, I will show you no mercy," he cried
between his teeth.  "Until now I have been silent, but--"

"You've been silent because you know too well that you fear to speak--
you fear to make any allegations against me.  I know rather too much!"
declared the Englishman, with confidence.

"Much or little, it does not concern me in the least," replied the
foreigner.  "You create unpleasantness, and _eh bien_!  I do the same."

"Then you actually intend that that desperate woman, in deadly fear of
her father's ruin, shall become your wife?"

"I do."

"Then I tell you, Dubard," he cried, "that I will not allow it!  I will
never allow it.  I will tell the truth, and bear the consequences."

"The consequences!" exclaimed the Frenchman in a deep, serious voice,
his teeth hard set in anger which he strove to suppress, but which
nevertheless rose by reason of his quick foreign nature.  "The
consequences!  Have you realised them all?  You seem to have a short
memory, my dear friend--and a short memory is often convenient.  Shall I
refresh it for you?" he asked, as the man before him clutched at the
wooden rail of the stile for support, although striving valiantly to
preserve a defiant calm.  "Shall I recall to you the memory of those
sunny winter days when your employer Morgan-Mason took you with him to
the Villa Puget at Mentone, when he was the guest of his brother-in-law,
General Felix Sazarac?  Shall--"

"I know!  I know!" cried the young Englishman.  "I know all--why should
you recall all that?"

"To refresh your memory, my dear friend," responded Dubard, with
withering sarcasm.  "Do you recollect how that we were friends in those
days--you, Felice Solaro, and myself?  Solaro and I were at the Hotel
National, and you were given a room at the villa by your employer's
hostess, his elder sister, Madame Sazarac--who had married the general.
Do you not remember these days, spent at Monte Carlo, or up at La
Turbie, our luncheons, our dinners at the Paris, and our little games at
the tables?  Oh yes, you had a merry time then--we all had--even the
poor general himself.  And then--"

"Stop!"  Macbean implored, raising both his hands.  "Enough!--I know!
Heavens!--as though I could ever forget!"

"But you have forgotten, it seems, or you--of all persons--would never
seek to come between me and the woman I am to marry.  Therefore hear
me--once and for all.  And when you have heard, reflect well before you
adopt a course which must inevitably reflect upon yourself--nay more,
which must cause your own ruin.  Do you recollect how your employer
Morgan-Mason had gone alone to Marseilles to meet his Indian manager who
was returning to England, and how you, being alone, the general often
invited you to ride with him up the Corniche road, and sometimes into
the mountains?  He was fond of the English because his wife was English,
and he had taken a great fancy to you.  Being in command of the Alpine
frontier defences in France, he had often to make inspections of those
high-up fortresses that guard the passes into Italy, and one day he
invited you to ride with him away up to the fortress of Saint Martin
Lantosque that overlooks Monte Malto."

"I will not hear you!" cried Macbean hoarsely.  "Enough!  Enough!"

But the Frenchman continued in the same quiet, hard, meaning tone, his
voice sounding clear in the quiet of night.

"With Solaro I chanced to call at the villa just as your horses were
brought round, and we stood upon the steps and saw you mount.  You waved
your hand triumphantly to us, and trotted away at the side of the man
who held the south-east frontier of France under his command.  Do you
recollect, as you rode down the drive bordered by its flowering azaleas,
how you turned and looked back at us, in wonder whether we suspected
your intentions?  Perhaps not--the truth remains the same," he added,
his face now closer to that of the man against whom he was making that
withering accusation.  "You rode nearly twenty miles into the mountains,
and were high up above the Vesubie, in a wild, solitary district devoid
of any human habitation, when, it being hot, you offered your
brandy-flask to the general, who was without one--for you yourself had
surreptitiously taken it from his holster prior to setting out.  Being
thirsty, he took a long drink.  Half an hour later he felt ill, and
dismounted.  And in an hour the poor fellow was dead!"

George Macbean stood still, gripping the moss-grown rail, glaring at his
accuser, though no word escaped his lips.

"The cognac you gave to the general was never suspected by the doctors,
who declared the fatality to be due to an internal malady from which he
had long suffered, and which was known might cause sudden death.  The
gallant officer was buried with military honours in Nice, and none were
aware of the truth save Solaro and I.  We knew that a sum of money which
the general had upon him had been stolen, and further, that the brandy
you had given him you had not dared to drink yourself.  In secret, we
charged you with the general's murder, for the sake of the money upon
him; but you defied us, and made a gallant fight to brave it out.  But
it was useless.  Solaro declared that you had concealed the money,
whereupon you offered to allow us to search your possessions, and we
found a draft on the Credit Lyonnais in the flap of your writing-case.
You offered to allow us to seal, before your eyes, the brandy in the
bottle in your room, together with that remaining in your flask, and we
sent it to be analysed by an analyst in Paris whom you yourself named.
You hoped to mislead us, to disarm our suspicions by allowing us to make
all the inquiries we, as friends of the general, thought fit!  Ah! that
was a fatal mistake, my friend!  You condemned yourself.  The analyst's
report does not lie.  I still have it here, in my pocket-book, and do
you know what it says?  It states that the contents of both bottle and
the flask filled from it were submitted to the tests of Marsh, Reinsch,
and Fresenius, and in each case the result was the same--the cognac
contained sufficient of a specific irritant poison of an arsenical
nature to render a single mouthful of it a fatal dose!  This document,"
he added, touching his breast-pocket as he spoke, "proves you to be the
murderer of Felix Sazarac--you poisoned him deliberately when up alone
in that mountain pass, and Solaro found in your effects part of the
money you stole from the dead man's pockets?"

Macbean tried to speak, but his throat contracted; he was unable.  Alas!
that terrible truth had been ever before him since that fatal day in
spring, when his life had been fettered.  Try how he would, he could not
put from him the horror of those awful hours.  There were,
unfortunately, witnesses against him, witnesses who could prove his
guilt and send him to an assassin's punishment.

"Well?" he managed to gasp at last in a low, half-frightened voice, his
heart beating quickly as he half turned and faced his accuser.

"Only this," answered Jules Dubard determinedly; "silence for silence!
You understand now, my friend--silence for silence!"

And then the two men parted.

The morning dawned bright and sunny--the morning of Mary's wedding day--
one of those fresh, brilliant days in June when the grass-country looks
its gladdest and best.

The bells were pealing merrily from the old church-tower of Orton in
honour of the event, upon the lawn a large marquee had been erected, and
the men down from London with the wedding breakfast were bustling
everywhere, while the excitement out in the village was intense.

Morini and his wife were both happy at the match, and in the long
dining-room some of the presents were displayed, including a splendid
pearl collar from Her Majesty the Queen of Italy.  The house was full of
visitors, several of them being persons of the highest aristocracy in
Italy, who had been specially invited over for the wedding, and there
was gaiety everywhere.

The only person who took no part in the bustle was the bride herself,
for alone in her bright little room she was upon her knees imploring the
Divine aid for strength in that hour of her greatest trial.

During those past weeks, as each day brought her nearer that hateful
union, she had pondered deeply, trying to devise some means by which to
escape, but alas! she saw too well that refusal would only bring ruin
upon her father's head; while, if she did marry Dubard, she had no
security that the blow would not fall upon her family afterwards.  So
she had been compelled to bow to the inevitable, to make that sacrifice
of her love, of her very life.

Those who had seen her in Rome lolling in her splendid carriage drawn by
that perfect pair of English bays, dancing in those gilded salons, or
laughing with her neighbour at dinner at one or other of the foreign
embassies, had surely never dreamed that that bright, happy girl, whose
engagement was discussed everywhere, had such a heavy burden of sorrow
within her young heart.

Before her lay her bridal gown, a magnificent creation from the Rue de
la Paix, with old lace that had once belonged to the extinct royal house
of Naples.  But when she gazed upon it she burst into a flood of tears,
and sank again upon her knees in desperation.

Teresa came at last and tried to calm her.

"Signorina! signorina!" she exclaimed, stroking the dark hair, which,
unbound, fell upon her shoulders.  "Your eyes will look so red.  Oh,
surely you should be happy to-day!"

"Happy!" groaned the unfortunate girl bitterly, as she slowly staggered
to her feet.  "There is no happiness for me--none--none."

At last the pale-faced girl, summoning up all the courage she possessed,
seated herself before the mirror, and having allowed Teresa to dress her
hair for the bridal, proceeded, with the help of Santina, her mother's
maid, her mother, and Vi Walters--who was one of the wedding guests--to
put on the gown with its wonderful train and real orange-blossoms from
the orangery at San Donato.

Meanwhile, however, in the study below, Camillo Morini was sitting with
his enemy, Angelo Borselli, who had practically invited himself on a
flying visit to the ceremony, and whom he could not well refuse without
giving him a direct insult.  Morini hated the man who had ever been his
evil genius, but in the present circumstances dared not openly quarrel
with him.  Therefore he treated him with diplomatic friendliness.

They were smoking their cigars together when Dubard, elegantly dressed,
entered merrily, and greeted them.  Borselli had only arrived late on
the previous night, therefore he had not seen him before.

"Well, my friend!" cried the Sicilian, "I congratulate you.  You will
have the best of wives in all the world--and the best of fathers-in-law,
that I'm sure."

"Ah, I'm certain I shall," replied the bridegroom.  "But what great
preparations are being made!"

"Half the country will be here to the reception later on," Morini
remarked, laughing.

"Where is your secretary--Macbean?" inquired Dubard.

"He is not here yet.  He is staying with his uncle over at Thornby," was
His Excellency's reply.

And the bridegroom smiled to himself.  His words of the previous night
would, he knew, have their effect.

Silence for silence!

CHAPTER THIRTY NINE.

REVELATIONS.

At that moment, however, the door suddenly opened, causing the three men
to turn and glance, when, to their surprise, they saw, standing before
them, the man whose name had just been mentioned.  Dubard held his
breath.  Macbean's face was bloodless, his lips quivered, his hands were
clenched, his whole countenance seemed to have altered in those moments
of tension and determination, and as he closed the door behind him and
advanced boldly into the room, trying to speak in a cool voice, he
addressed the Minister--

"Your Excellency, the tragedy of this marriage must not take place--for
your own sake, as well as for your daughter's."

In an instant the three men were upon their feet, electrified by the
Englishman's startling words.

"What do you mean?" asked Morini, looking at him amazed.

"Yes," cried Dubard, stepping forward angrily.  "Let us hear what this
fellow means."

"You wish to hear," exclaimed Macbean, facing the Frenchman boldly.
"Then listen!  I allege that Miss Morini has been forced into this
marriage by you--and by that man there," he added, pointing to the
sallow-faced Sicilian.  "If you doubt me," he said, turning to the
Minister of War, "ask her yourself.  This man Dubard made a promise to
her that, in exchange for her hand, he would prevent the crisis which
Borselli had arranged to bring ruin and disgrace upon you.  You will
recollect the mysterious letter received by Montebruno when he was
already upon his feet in the Chamber.  That letter was sent by your
enemy, Borselli, at Dubard's instigation, because your poor daughter had
consented to sacrifice herself in order to save you.  It is my duty to
tell you this, your Excellency.  You have been pleased to take me into
your service, to treat me almost as a confidential friend, and it is my
duty therefore to speak the truth and to save Miss Mary from falling the
victim of this man?"

"Victim!" cried Dubard quickly.  "What do you mean?"

"I mean that you intend to marry her, and having done so, your friend
here, General Angelo Borselli, will strike his blow at His Excellency--a
merciless blow, that will crush and ruin him."

"Bah!" exclaimed the Sicilian.  "All this is a mere fiction!  He loves
your daughter himself, my dear Camillo.  There is lots of gossip about
it in Rome."

"During my employment in the Ministry I have kept both ears and eyes
open," Macbean went on.  "I know well with what devilish ingenuity you
have plotted against your chief, how you have forced him deeper and
deeper into financial intrigue, in order that your revelations may be
the greater, and how, in order to propitiate your accomplice Dubard, you
have stayed your hand until this marriage is effected."

"Basta!" cried the Sicilian.  "I will not be insulted by a common
employee like you!"

"Nor I!" exclaimed Dubard, his face white with passion, as he turned to
Macbean.  "My affairs are no concern of yours--they concern myself and
the lady who is to become my wife.  I am amazed that you, of all men,
should dare to come forward and make these unfounded charges against us.
Hitherto I have kept my silence, but as you have sought exposure I will
speak the truth.  Then your employer shall judge as to which of us is
worthy of confidence, and which--"

"I make no plea for myself," declared George, quickly interrupting him.
"I merely intervene on behalf of a broken and defenceless woman--the
woman you have so cleverly entrapped."

But Dubard only laughed drily, and said--

"Very well.  Let His Excellency listen to you--and afterwards to me."

"Then let me speak first," cried the Englishman desperately.  "Let me
tell you myself the truth of the Sazarac affair."

Borselli's face fell, and Morini's countenance changed colour in an
instant.  Mention of that name was sufficient to cause both men quick
apprehension.

"You need not do that," the Sicilian managed to say.  "But I will,"
Macbean went on.  "You shall hear me.  I know the truth is an unwelcome
one, but lest others shall tell you any garbled version of it, I will be
frank and fearless with you.  In the winter three years ago I was taken
by Mr Morgan-Mason, whose secretary I was, to stay with General Felix
Sazarac, whose wife was my employer's elder sister, the younger sister
having married a Mr Fitzroy.  The general, who was in command of the
French garrisons on the Alpine frontier, lived at the Villa Puget, at
Mentone, and at the Hotel National there was staying his friend Dubard--
the man before you.  We became friendly, for the general often invited
Dubard to dine at the villa, and after a time there arrived in Mentone
at the same hotel an acquaintance of the count's--a young Italian
gentleman of means named Solaro, who was also introduced at the Villa
Puget, and who also became one of our intimate friends.  Curiously
enough, however, the general did not seem to care for Solaro's company,
yet he frequently invited me to ride out with him, and gave me good
mounts from the barracks.  Well," he went on, after a slight pause, "all
went merrily for over two months, until one day, when Mr Morgan-Mason
had gone to Marseilles, the general invited me to ride with him up into
the mountains to the fortress above Saint Martin Lantosque, which he had
to inspect.  The morning was a bright one, with all the prospects of a
blazing day, and we first rode across the plain behind Mentone, and then
began to ascend the rough mountain paths into the Alps.  We had ridden
some fourteen miles or so, when the general suddenly exclaimed, `That
rascally servant of mine has forgotten my flask again!'  `Never mind,' I
called to him.  `I have mine.  I filled it with cognac and water before
starting.'  `That's good!' he laughed.--`We shall want a drink before
long.  It's going to be a blazer to-day!'  And then we toiled on and on,
up the steep rough paths that wound higher and higher over the
mountains.  Just before midday, however, the general pulled up, removed
his cap, and declaring that he was thirsty, took a long pull at the
flask I handed to him."

"And then?" asked Morini almost involuntarily, as he stood listening to
the story.

"I was not thirsty myself, so I put the flask back into the holster, and
we rode on again, laughing together and enjoying the glorious panorama
at our feet.  Half an hour later, however, my companion complained of
queer pains in his head and giddiness, which he attributed to the sun,
and pulling up he dismounted.  We were then in a lonely spot in a
district utterly unknown to me.  The general grew worse, being seized by
strange cramping pains in the stomach and a curious twitching of the
face.  I gave him some water from a spring close by, and bathed his
head, but he grew worse, and seemed to lapse into a state of coma.
Suddenly he opened his eyes, and motioning to me that he wished to
speak, he gasped faintly, `Tell them I did it because those Jews were
pressing me--I regret it--regret--but it is useless!'  Then after a
pause he managed to articulate, `My wife!--my dear wife--my love to her,
M'sieur Macbean--my love to her--I--I'--Then his jaw dropped, and I
found him dead upon my arm!  This fatal seizure appalled me.  I shouted,
but no one heard.  I was miles and miles from civilisation in the centre
of the wildest district of the Alps, therefore I covered the dead man's
face with his handkerchief, tethered his horse, and rode back ten miles
or so to a little village we had passed.  The general was brought back
to Mentone that night, and at the Villa Puget the scene was a sad and
tragic one.  I gave poor madame her husband's dying message, but his
words about the Jews puzzled her.  She could not understand them in the
least.  It was a mystery."

"They were words invented by you," declared Dubard in a hard tone.
"Tell these gentlemen the truth!  It was you who gave the poor fellow
the cognac--you who poisoned him!"

"I gave him the brandy, I admit," exclaimed Macbean quickly, "but I
swear I was unaware that it was poisoned!"

"You filled it from the bottle in your room.  Now you have gone so far,
tell the whole truth."

"I am not afraid," Macbean went on boldly.  "On the night when the body
of the general was brought home you came with Solaro to my room, locked
the door, and charged me with administering poison--although three
doctors had seen him, and as they had all previously treated him for a
malady which they knew might terminate fatally on too violent exercise,
they had decided that no post-mortem examination was necessary.  Your
allegation astounded me, but you asked for the key of the cupboard
wherein I kept the bottle of brandy.  There was some remaining, as well
as the remains of that mixed with water in the flask.  As I denied that
I had poisoned him you both urged that, in satisfaction, I should seal
both bottle and flask and submit them to some analyst in Paris.  This I
willingly did, entirely unsuspecting any plot.  I packed them in a box,
and myself saw them despatched."

"And the analyst's report is here!" exclaimed Dubard, waving the paper
triumphantly before the speaker's eyes.  "It proves that you
deliberately poisoned General Sazarac, while Solaro, if he were here,
could prove further that he found in your writing-case the draft which
you stole from the dead man's pocket?"

"I know only too well the circumstantial evidence that was against me,"
said Macbean, addressing Morini.  "I had been the victim of a clever and
ingenious plot in which the unfortunate officer had lost his life.  But
why?  There seemed no motive whatever.  I returned to England a
suspected man, and from that day I did not come face to face with Dubard
until I recognised him last year driving on the Rugby road, and heard to
my amazement that he was engaged to your daughter Mary.  Ever since then
I have desired to re-encounter this man, and to clear myself of the
terrible charge he brings against me."

"And how do you propose to do that?" inquired His Excellency, astonished
at the entirely new complexion placed upon that tragic affair which had
caused him so much mental anxiety and so many sleepless nights.

"I can only declare my complete innocence.  I was, no doubt, the agent
who administered the fatal cognac, but I certainly was ignorant of it,
and would never have poisoned the man who had showed me so many
kindnesses."

"Then I think it is only in the interests of justice if this report of
the analyst is given into the hands of the Paris police," remarked the
Sicilian, who had remained silent, but whose active mind nevertheless
had been at work to discern some means of effectually closing Macbean's
mouth.

The young Englishman started.  He had not expected such a suggestion.
He foresaw the difficulty of proving his innocence when such witnesses
as Solaro and Dubard were against him.

"For the present, we will leave that aside," said the Minister, in as
quiet a voice as he could.  "My first duty, as father of my child, is to
investigate this allegation of Macbean's," and he touched the bell.  To
the man who answered his summons he said in English in a determined
tone--

"Ask Miss Mary to kindly step down here for one moment.  I desire to see
her without a minute's delay.  Say that I have some urgent news for
her."

"Very good, your Excellency."  And the door was closed again.

Dubard and Borselli exchanged uneasy glances; but a dead silence had
fallen between the four men--a silence that was broken by the sound of
wheels out on the gravelled drive.  There were lots of coming and going
in that bustling day, wedding guests arriving, and the bride's luggage
being despatched, so as to meet her in London before they left for Paris
on the following morning.

The pause was painful.  Macbean looked at the pair who had for so long
been united hand and glove against the Minister, and recognised the
spirit of murder in their glance.  They would have killed him had they
dared, for they knew too well that he had now revealed to the Minister
the actual truth.  Borselli, who had enticed him to Rome hoping to
ensure his secrecy over the Sazarac affair, had placed his own head in
the lion's mouth by so doing.  It was seldom he made an error in his
clever schemes, but he knew that he had done so on this occasion, and
that it would require all his ingenuity and cunning to escape from such
a compromising situation.

The minutes passed, but neither spoke a word.  Each man feared to utter
a sentence lest it should be seized upon and misconstrued, while the
Minister himself, silent and distinguished-looking, glanced from one to
the other, and waited for his beloved daughter to enter and to speak.

CHAPTER FORTY.

THE STORY OF CAPTAIN SOLARO.

At last there was a light footstep out in the hall.  The door opened,
and she entered, radiant in her wonderful bridal gown and
orange-blossoms, her long sweeping train behind, but without her veil,
of course, her beautiful face revealed in all its haggard pallor.

Dubard sprang forward to welcome her; but ere he could take her hand he
fell back in utter dismay, for behind her, silhouetted in the doorway,
stood the figure of a man in a grey felt hat and a light overcoat.

"Great heavens!" gasped Macbean, who at the same moment recognised the
new-comer.  "Solaro!  Felice Solaro!"

"Yes," replied the other, in a quiet, distinct voice, as he came into
the room behind the Minister's daughter in her rustling silks.  "I am
fortunately here, not by His Excellency's decree, but by the generous
clemency of the king himself, who, on the occasion of his birthday,
three days ago, and in consequence of a petition of my family, gave me
my liberty with others.  I heard what was in progress, and so I have
travelled here to ascertain the truth, and to clear myself of the base
and scandalous charges those men who stand there have brought against
me," and he raised his finger and pointed to the Sicilian and the
Frenchman, both of whose faces had, on the instant of recognising him,
become entirely changed.

"It seems, signorina," he said in Italian, turning his pale, emaciated
face to Mary, who stood in the centre of the room utterly dumbfounded at
the dramatic scene, "it seems that by good fortune I am here in order to
save you, your father, and the Signor Macbean from these two men who
have so very cleverly plotted your father's ruin, your own marriage, the
disgrace of the Signor Englishman, and my own imprisonment."

"Do you allege that they conspired to obtain the conviction against
you?" cried the Minister, amazed.

"Listen, and I will tell you everything.  Then you yourself shall take
what steps against them that you desire."

"I shall not remain to hear that traitor's insults!" cried the Sicilian,
moving quickly towards the door; but Solaro, noticing his action,
stepped back, locked the door behind him, and placed the key in his
pocket, saying, "You will remain, general.  You have to answer to me."
Then, after a brief pause, he commenced--

"It may be news to you all, except the Under-secretary, that Jules
Dubard is not a member of the French nobility at all, but a person who,
while posing as a count, is one of the secret agents of the French
Minister of War.  It was for this reason that he desired to be married
in England, as the unwelcome truth would have been shown upon his
papers."

"A spy!" gasped the bride, standing open-mouthed on the eve of her
deliverance.

"That is the vulgar term for such persons," Solaro said.  "It happened
about four years ago that Borselli and he met, and the former, finding
him a shrewd and clever adventurer, resolved to make use of him to gain
a triumph over the Minister Morini.  Borselli had also met General
Sazarac at the Jockey Club in Paris, and had won from him several large
sums at cards, accepting from him a number of promissory notes.  Having
done this, he discovered, to his delight, that Sazarac was actually in
command of the Alpine frontier of France, therefore he proceeded with
slow deliberation to win over Dubard from the French service, by
promises of position when the Minister Morini was overthrown, and to
unfold a plot which is a good specimen of his amazing ingenuity.
Briefly, it was to place the promissory notes in the hands of some
unscrupulous Jews in Antwerp, in order that they should press for
payment, and when they did so, Dubard, who was attached to Sazarac's
division of the French army, should suggest a course out of the
difficulty--namely, to sell to the Italian Ministry of War certain plans
of the frontier defences which we were very anxious to obtain.  This was
done.  Sazarac, in desperate straits for money, listened to his friend
Dubard's evil counsel, and agreed to allow the plans of the whole of the
defences from Mount Pelvoux to the sea to be copied for a sum of two
hundred thousand francs.  These were the secrets which we had desired
for many years to know, and the first I knew of the matter was a summons
to the Ministry in Rome, where I saw Borselli, who introduced me to
Dubard, and instructed me, because I spoke French perfectly and was a
good draughtsman, to go to Mentone, take quarters at the Hotel National,
and make copies in secret of certain documents which Dubard would hand
me from time to time."

"You were in our service!" declared the Sicilian.

"Certainly," he answered; and then proceeding he said, "I went to
Mentone, and commenced the work of copying those plans which the general
allowed Dubard to abstract from the safe at headquarters and bring to me
in secret.  While there we both became on friendly terms with the
Englishman Macbean, who was secretary to the French general's
brother-in-law, and who was of course in entire ignorance of what was in
progress.  After about two months, during which Dubard and I led the
life of wealthy idlers on the Riviera, the copying was complete, I had
sent the last batch of tracings to Rome by the official of the Ministry
who came specially to convey them, and was awaiting further
instructions, when one evening, after we had seen Macbean and the
general going out for a ride together, Dubard entered the hotel and said
he had heard in a cafe the startling report of the general's sudden
death.  We at once went round to the Villa Puget, and there sure enough
he was lying dead, with madame inconsolable with grief.  The doctors had
declared death due to natural causes, as he had long been an invalid,
and had been warned against riding too far.  But Dubard took me aside in
the garden and told me that he held a distinct suspicion that the
general had been poisoned.  The sum agreed to be paid for the plans had,
he said, been paid on the previous day, and probably he had some of it
upon him, which might serve as a motive for the crime.  He suggested
poison, and declared that he had suspicion of Macbean.  At first I
refused to entertain such a theory, but he persisted in it, and at his
suggestion I accompanied him when he openly charged the Englishman with
the crime.  Macbean at once offered us every facility for the analysing
of the cognac and the contents of his flask, sealed them up with his own
seal, and packed them before our eyes, addressing them to a well-known
chemist in the Rue Rivoli in Paris, and I despatched them.  The report
came back that there was an arsenical poison in both the bottle and the
flask.  It seemed that Macbean had tried to bluff us to the very last,
but the most damning fact was that on searching his effects I discovered
a draft on the Credit Lyonnais for fifty thousand francs from a firm in
Genoa, but really emanating from our Ministry of War, and part of the
agreed payment for the plans.  This was concealed in the flap of his
writing-case."

"So the natural conclusion was that Mr Macbean was a poisoner!"
remarked Mary, standing dumbfounded.

"Of course," he said.  "I certainly believed that he was, and that he
was only allowed his liberty through Dubard's clemency, until about
three months after the affair, when Dubard and I being together at the
Grand Hotel in Venice, my curiosity was one day aroused, and I pried
into his despatch-box during his absence.  Among other papers I found
this letter," he said, producing one from his pocket.  "It is undated
and unsigned, but it suggests that if some secret means were employed to
induce S's (meaning Sazarac, of course) fatal illness, two ends would be
achieved.  France would never suspect that he had sold the plans, and
the payment of two hundred thousand francs need not be made."

"Fifty thousand francs of that money Borselli handed back to me," the
Minister admitted.

"And he kept the remainder himself," declared Solaro.  "This letter is
in his handwriting--and is in itself evidence that he instigated the
general's death, and that this man, who is his accomplice, carried it
out so cleverly that the whole of the evidence pointed to Macbean.
Indeed, this is proved by recent events, and by the manner in which the
pair have sought to close my mouth regarding the ugly affair.  Last
summer I was suddenly arrested, and was amazed to discover how very
neatly the man Dubard, whom I thought my friend, had had me watched in
Paris and in Bologna, had bogus plans of the Tresenta prepared and sent
to Filomena Nodari, and how these and other documents--one purporting to
be the mobilisation scheme itself--passed through that woman's hands
into those of a French agent.  Evidence--foul lies, all of it--was given
against me; I was condemned as a traitor--I, the man who had copied all
the plans of France in the interests of my own country--and then I
realised how cleverly Borselli and Dubard, the ex-agent of France, were
acting in conjunction, and that whoever was guilty of poor Sazarac's
assassination it certainly was not the Englishman.  I had, before my
arrest, mentioned the death of Sazarac casually to Dubard, and inquired
of the whereabouts of Macbean.  It was this remark of mine which
apparently aroused his suspicions, and which caused both he and Borselli
to secure my imprisonment for a twofold reason: first, to ensure my
silence; and secondly, so as to give the Socialists a weapon by which
they might hound your Excellency from office for countenancing a
traitor.  This was the only way in which your Excellency's popularity
and power could be undermined; but so craftily did they go to work, and
so cleverly was every detail of the conspiracy thought out, even to the
opening of your safe at San Donato with a key made from the impression
of the original key taken by Borselli two years before.  You made away
with the key, hoping to conceal the evidences of your peculations; but
their ingenuity was simply marvellous, for they were playing with the
safety and prosperity of a kingdom."

"But General Borselli asked me recently to induce my father to release
you," said Mary.

"In order to still further incite the popular feeling against His
Excellency.  He probably believed that I dared not denounce him as the
instigator of the assassination of Sazarac, and that with my release his
_coup_ could be effected against your father after your marriage with
his accomplice.  It is, indeed, intended to strike the blow at the first
sitting of the Chamber next month."

"Then I think we are now fully prepared to combat it," remarked the
tall, grey-haired Minister in a cool tone, as he glanced at the
Sicilian.  "When I received the fifty thousand francs of the sum which
was to have been paid from the secret service fund to General Sazarac, I
was led to believe that, owing to a certain plan not being forthcoming,
only half the sum had been paid to him.  I had no knowledge of a tragedy
until long afterwards, when, to my horror, I discovered for myself that
there had been some foul play, and that I was morally responsible as an
accessory."

"I am not to blame altogether," declared the Frenchman desperately.
"Borselli sent me the cognac from Rome already prepared, and according
to his directions I substituted the bottle in the Englishman's room and
at the same time abstracted the general's flask from his holster.  I
also concealed, at Angelo's suggestion, the banker's draft in Macbean's
writing-case."

"You scoundrel!" cried George, turning upon the white-faced criminal
whom his well-beloved had so narrowly escaped.  "And you, Borselli, have
sent your spy, that woman Nodari, to investigate Mr Morgan-Mason's
papers because you fear he holds something that incriminates you?"

"Silence!" cried the Minister, holding up his hand.  "There must be no
recriminations here in my house.  I have been misled by Borselli as to
this man's position and antecedents.  The wedding will not take place,
after these scandalous revelations, but there is still one duty before
me, as Minister of War," and turning to his writing-table he took two
sheets of paper, and upon each he scribbled some hurried words.  One he
handed to Borselli, who glanced at it and threw it from him with an
imprecation.

It was his dismissal from the office of Under-Secretary of War.

The other, which he handed to Solaro, caused him to cry aloud with joy,
for it was his reinstatement in the army and a declaration of his
innocence of the crime of which he had been charged.

Then Solaro unlocked the door, and turning to the Sicilian and Dubard,
who were standing together pale, crestfallen, and ashamed, he said--

"Go, you pair of assassins.  Don't either of you put foot in Italy
again, or I'll take it upon myself to prosecute you for your vile plot
and my own false imprisonment.  Then, at your trial, the whole affair
will come out.  You hear?"

"Yes!" muttered Dubard, with flashing eyes.  "We hear your threats."

And in silence both the elegant bridegroom and his dark-faced friend
passed from the study and out of the house, never to re-enter it.

Then, when they had gone, Mary, a pale, tragic figure in her bridal
dress, flung herself into George's ready arms, crying--

"You have saved me--saved me!" and she burst into tears of joy, the
outpourings of an overburdened heart.

For the first time Camillo Morini guessed the truth, yet then and there,
before Felice Solaro, whose statement had liberated both of them, George
Macbean openly confessed his great passion for her, a declaration of
purest and strongest affection, of which she, by her own action, had
already acknowledged reciprocation.

And so the Minister, on recovering from his surprise, gladly gave the
hand of his daughter to the gallant, upright man who had placed himself
in such jeopardy in order to save her and to unmask the conspirators,
while Felice Solaro was the first to offer the pair his hearty
congratulations.  Hand in hand they stood, content in each other's love.

In order to preserve appearances, it was arranged that Mary should feign
a sudden illness to necessitate the postponement of the wedding, and
while there was great disappointment among the guests and the curious
crowds of villagers, there was, in secret, a great rejoicing in Madame
Morini's little boudoir when the glad news was revealed to her.

The pealing bells were stopped.  Mary had thrown off her wedding-gown
merrily, and when she tossed her orange-blossoms into the grate of the
boudoir, she said to George laughingly--

"When we marry privately in London next month, I shall require no white
satin--a travelling gown will be sufficient, will it not?"

"Yes, dearest," he said, kissing her fondly upon the lips, now that she
was really his very own.  "The dress does not matter when the union of
our hearts is so firm and true.  You know how fondly and passionately I
love you, and how I have suffered in silence at the thought of your
terrible sacrifice."

"I know," she answered softly, looking up into his eyes trustingly.  "I
know, George--only too well!  Ah! you cannot think how happy I am, now
that it is all past--and you are mine?"  And then she raised her sweet
face and kissed him of her own accord upon the cheek.

CHAPTER FORTY ONE.

A WOMAN'S FREEDOM.

Within a month of the abandoned wedding at Orton, Mary Morini and George
Macbean were married quietly at St James's Church, in Piccadilly, the
Rev Basil Sinclair assisting, and Billy Grenfell, as full of his bluff
humour as ever, acting as best man, while among the various handsome
presents the happy pair received was an acceptable cheque from Mr
Morgan-Mason for ten thousand pounds--the sum he had offered to George
for information as to the actual means by which his brother-in-law met
with his death.

The millionaire was determined to place the assassins on their trial,
and notwithstanding Morini's efforts to preserve secrecy regarding the
affair, he actually gave information to the Chief of Police in Mentone.
By some secret means, Angelo Borselli obtained knowledge of this fact,
and on the very morning of George's wedding day he was found in a room
in an obscure hotel in Brussels, quite dead, having committed suicide by
swallowing some arsenical poison, probably the same as that used in the
cognac which caused the unfortunate general's tragic end.

Felice Solaro was soon gazetted major, and is now transferred to the
gaiety of Naples.  As for Dubard, he did not long enjoy his freedom, for
he was arrested as a traitor by the French police while passing through
Bordeaux, and is now spending the remainder of his days on the penal
island of New Caledonia.

George Macbean and his charming wife still live in Rome, and all in the
Eternal City know them well by sight.  The Cavaliere Macbean has been
promoted to a very high and responsible position in the Ministry of War,
but last year Camillo Morini, owing to failing health, resigned office,
greatly to the regret of his new sovereign, King Victor Emmanuel, and of
the gallant Italian people at large.

But before resigning he endeavoured by every means in his power to atone
for the peculations of his earlier career, and by selling his palace and
other properties, he paid back the whole of the money he had
appropriated.

San Donato, the old-world estate above Florence, is, however, still his,
and there, enjoying the greatest fame perhaps of any living Italian, he
is spending with his wife the evening of his days.

Orton Court is still rented by him, and each summer they go there with
Mary and her husband.  But the village is still mystified why Miss Mary
did not marry the Frenchman, and whether, after all, there was not a
scene on that memorable day when the wedding was so abruptly postponed.

But in her fine dark eyes they now see the light of perfect love and
sweet contentment, and they know too well the sterling worth and kindly
heart of the man who is her husband.

In Orton village in summer, however, perhaps the most popular and
important personage of any is the little round-faced, chubby boy, who so
often sits between the happy pair when on bright afternoons they drive
out in the smart victoria.

Much as she prefers England, Madame Macbean is compelled, on account of
her husband's official position, to still move in Roman society, where,
for her great personal beauty and the sweetness of her character, she is
the most admired of women in the Quirinale set, that bright and
brilliant circle of Italy's bluest blood--"The World behind the Throne."






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Behind the Throne, by William Le Queux

